0|You gain a tumor familiar, as the tumor familiar alchemist discovery, with an effective alchemist level equal to the level of the class that grants your aberrant bloodline for determining the tumor familiar's abilities. If multiple classes grant you the aberrant bloodline, those class levels stack for determining your effective alchemist level.
1|Choose one of the creature's special attacks. Add +2 to the DC for all saving throws against the special attack on which the creature focuses.  Special: A creature can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time the creature takes the feat, it applies to a different special attack.
2|Choose one of your revelations that has a number of uses per day. You gain 1 additional use per day of that revelation.  Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new revelation.
3|You gain spell resistance equal to 5 + your character level, as the curse interferes with all magic. Unlike most spell resistance, it can't voluntarily be lowered, though your own spells and magic items still automatically affect you.  Goal: Your curse is lifted or you are able to purge the corruption of your fiendish blood (the circumstances of either vary widely based on the nature of the curse, and are up to the GM).  Completion
4|When you target a creature with a hex that cannot target the same creature more than once per day, and that creature succeeds at its saving throw against the hex's effect, you can target the creature with the same hex a second time before the end of your next turn. If the second attempt fails, you can make no further attempts to target that creature with the same hex for 1 day.  Normal: You can only target a creature with these hexes once per day.
5|When you use Accursed Hex to target a creature with one of your hexes a second time, that creature must roll its saving throw twice and take the lower result.
6|You get a +2 bonus on all Acrobatics and Fly skill checks. If you have 10 or more ranks in one of these skills, the bonus increases to +4 for that skill.
7|The bonus on Acrobatics and Fly skill checks from Acrobatic increases by 2. In addition, you can expend one use of mythic power to treat an Acrobatics or Fly check as if you had rolled a natural 20. You must decide to use this ability before making the roll.
8|You gain two character traits of your choice (see Chapter 8). These traits must be chosen from different lists, and cannot be chosen from lists from which you have already selected a character trait. You must meet any additional qualifications for the character traits you choose.
9|While using your smite evil class feature, as a swift action at the start of your turn, you can forgo the bonus on damage rolls and instead gain half that bonus as a bonus on combat maneuver checks against the target of your smite. The effects of your smite evil feature return to normal at the start of your next turn.
10|Add +1 to the Difficulty Class on all Perception and Disable Device skill checks to find or disable the traps you make with your trap class feature. Add a +1 to the Difficulty Class on all saving throws against the effects of the trap you make with your trap class feature.
11|You add your Dexterity bonus to your base attack bonus and size bonus when determining your Combat Maneuver Bonus (see Combat) instead of your Strength bonus.  Normal: You add your Strength bonus to your base attack bonus and size bonus when determining your Combat Maneuver Bonus.
12|If an opponent larger than you attempts to grapple you and fails, you may make a trip attack as an immediate action against that opponent with a +2 bonus. This does not provoke an attack of opportunity.
13|You have a prehensile tongue with a range of 10 feet. You can pick up items weighing no more than 5 pounds, make Sleight of Hand checks, perform the steal or disarm combat maneuvers, or make melee touch attacks with your tongue.
14|You gain a +2 bonus on saving throws against effects with the air or electricity descriptors and effects that deal electricity damage. You may ignore the first 30 feet of any fall when determining falling damage.
15|Your bonus on saves against effects with the air or electricity descriptors and effects that deal electricity damage increases to +4. In addition, you gain a supernatural fly speed equal to your base speed (good maneuverability). You may only fly with this ability when wearing light armor or no armor.
16|You get a +2 bonus on Perception and Sense Motive skill checks. If you have 10 or more ranks in one of these skills, the bonus increases to +4 for that skill.
17|The bonus on Perception and Sense Motive skill checks from Alertness increases by 2. In addition, you can expend one use of mythic power to treat a Perception or Sense Motive check as if you had rolled a natural 20. You must decide to use this ability before making the roll.
18|This feat gives you an additional +1 bonus on Perception and Sense Motive checks, and you gain a +2 bonus on saving throws against sleep and charm effects.
19|Instead of its normal effect, you can choose to have your ability to channel energy heal or harm outsiders of the chosen alignment subtype. You must make this choice each time you channel energy. If you choose to heal or harm creatures of the chosen alignment subtype, your channel energy has no effect on other creatures. The amount of damage healed or dealt and the DC to halve the damage is otherwise unchanged.  Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take this feat, it applies to a new alignment subtype. Whenever you channel energy, you must choose which type to effect.
20|Your channeled energy affects any creatures with the alignment chosen when you took Alignment Channel (not just outsiders, and not just those with the alignment subtype), but grants only half healing or deals only half damage to these targets. Alternatively, you can expend two uses of mythic power when using Alignment Channel to affect all targets of the chosen alignment as if they had that alignment subtype.
21|Whenever you are adjacent to an ally who also has this feat, you receive a +2 competence bonus on level checks made to overcome spell resistance. If your ally has the same spell prepared (or known with a slot available if they are spontaneous spellcasters), this bonus increases to +4 and you receive a +1 bonus to the caster level for all level-dependent variables, such as duration, range, and effect.
22|When you cast instigate psychic duel and create a binary mindscape, the arena you create puts your enemy at a disadvantage. Your opponent must spend 1 more manifestation point than normal when creating any defensive manifestations.
23|You gain a small amount of grit and the ability to perform a single 1st-level deed from the gunslinger deed class feature. At the start of the day, you gain 1 grit point, though throughout the day you can gain grit points up to a maximum of your Wisdom modifier (minimum 1). You can regain grit using the rules for the gunslinger's grit class feature (see page 9). You can spend this grit to perform the 1st-level deed you chose upon taking this feat, and any other deed you have gained through feats or magic items.  Special: If you gain levels in a class that grants the grit class feature, you can immediately trade this feat for the Extra Grit feat.
24|You gain 2 extra grit points at the start of each day, and your maximum grit increases by 2.  Normal: If you are a gunslinger, you gain your Wisdom modifier in grit points at the start of each day, which is also your maximum grit. If you have the Amateur Gunslinger feat, you gain 1 grit point at the start of each day, and your maximum grit is equal to your Wisdom modifier.  Special: If you possess levels in the gunslinger class, you can take this feat multiple times.
25|You often rely on surprise and misdirection in your social dealings. You gain a +2 bonus on Bluff checks, and you can spend 1 grit point to gain a +10 bonus on Disguise checks for 10 minutes per your gunslinger level (minimum 10 minutes). This deed does not actually change your appearance, but rather allows you to hide your identity in other ways.
26|Spend 1 grit point while in combat to recover either 1 bullet and 1 dose of black powder or 1 alchemical cartridge from a hidden stash on your person that you had, until now, forgotten about. If the bullet and black powder or the alchemical cartridges are normal shot, you do not need to pay for the ammunition. If you want to recover any other kind of ammunition, you must pay for it with gold pieces from your character's wealth. The grit cost of this deed cannot be decreased by the Signature Deed feat, the true grit class feature, or any other similar effect that reduces the number of grit points you spend to use a deed. You also gain a +4 bonus on any Sleight of Hand checks made while gambling.
27|Like an investigator, you have the ability to augment your Knowledge, Linguistics, and Spellcraft checks. You gain a pool of inspiration equal to your Intelligence modifier. You can expend one use of inspiration as a free action to add 1d6 to the result of a Knowledge, Linguistics, or Spellcraft check, as long as you are trained in that skill (even if you take 10 or take 20 on that check). You make this choice after the check is rolled and before the result of the roll is revealed. You can use inspiration only once per skill check. Your pool of inspiration refreshes each day, typically after you get a restful night's sleep.  Special: If you later gain levels in a class that has the inspiration class feature, you can immediately trade this feat for the Extra Inspiration feat.
28|You can expend one use of inspiration as a move action to study a single enemy that you can see. When you do so, you gain a +2 insight bonus on melee attack rolls and a +2 bonus on damage rolls for a number of rounds equal to your Intelligence modifier. The bonus on damage rolls is precision damage, and is not multiplied on a critical hit. Once affected by this feat, a target cannot be affect by your use of it again for 24 hours.
29|Your bonuses for Studied Combatant increase to a +4 insight bonus on melee attack rolls and a +4 bonus on damage rolls. This feat otherwise works like the Studied Combatant feat.
30|You gain a small amount of panache and the ability to perform a single 1st-level swashbuckler deed. Choose a 1st-level deed from the swashbuckler's deeds class feature (you can't select opportune parry and riposte). Once chosen, this deed can't be changed.  At the start of each day, you gain 1 panache point. Throughout the day, you can gain a number of panache points, up to a maximum equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum 1). You can regain panache points as the swashbuckler's panache class feature. You can spend these points to perform the 1st-level deed you chose upon taking this feat as well as any other deeds you have gained through feats or magic items.  Special: If you later gain levels in a class that has the panache class feature, you can immediately trade this feat for the Extra Panache feat.
31|When you succeed at an Intimidate check to force an opponent to act friendly toward you, you can spend 1 panache point to cause the target to regard you with indifference when the duration of the effect expires. A target influenced in this manner is unlikely to report you to authorities.  Normal: An opponent forced to act friendly toward you by Intimidate becomes unfriendly when the duration expires, and is likely to report you to the authorities.
32|You gain 2 more panache points at the start of each day, and your maximum panache increases by 2.  Special: If you have levels in the swashbuckler class, you can take this feat multiple times. Its effects stack.
33|You can spend 1 panache point to make a melee attack with the pommel of a light or one-handed piercing melee weapon as a standard action. You make this attack as if you were using the weapon normally (including any bonuses gained from the swashbuckler's finesse class feature, Weapon Finesse, or other similar feats and effects), but you deal 1d6 points of bludgeoning damage (or 1d4 if you are Small) instead of the weapon's normal damage. Regardless of your size, the critical threat range and critical multiplier of this attack are 20/×2, and they are not affected by Improved Critical, the keen weapon special ability, or similar effects. If the attack hits, you can attempt a combat maneuver check to knock the target prone as a free action.
34|You gain a +2 bonus on melee attack rolls against dwarves and gnomes.  Special: You may select this feat twice. Its effects stack.
35|You gain a +2 bonus on saving throws against effects with the evil descriptor and on Constitution checks to stabilize when you are reduced to negative hit points (but not dead). Furthermore, each time you take bleed or blood drain damage, each undead creature or creature with the evil subtype that is currently adjacent to you also takes 1 point of damage.
36|You take a –2 penalty on Disguise and Stealth checks but gain one of the following benefits, depending on the metallic affinity of your flesh (choose one).  Brazen: You gain fire resistance 5 and a +2 bonus on saves against fire effects.  Golden: You gain a +2 bonus on saves against blindness, dazzling, patterns, and effects with the light descriptor. When you cast spells or use spell-like abilities that are from the illusion (pattern) subschool or have the light descriptor, you do so at +1 caster level.  Silver: You gain a +2 bonus on saves against paralysis, petrification, and poison, and your unarmed strikes or natural weapons count as silver for the purpose of overcoming damage reduction.  Steel: You gain a +1 natural armor bonus to AC, and your unarmed strikes or natural weapons count as cold iron for the purpose of overcoming damage reduction.
37|You gain a pair of gleaming feathered wings that grant a fly speed of 30 feet (average maneuverability) if wearing light armor or unencumbered, or 20 feet (poor maneuverability) with a medium or heavy load or medium or heavy armor. Fly is a class skill for you.
38|You gain two wing attacks. These are secondary natural attacks that deal 1d4 points of slashing damage (or 1d3 if you are Small).
39|You get a +2 bonus on all Handle Animal and Ride skill checks. If you have 10 or more ranks in one of these skills, the bonus increases to +4 for that skill.
40|The bonus on Handle Animal and Ride skill checks from Animal Affinity increases by 2. In addition, you can expend one use of mythic power to speak with animals as the spell. Your caster level for this effect is equal to twice your tier.
41|You can choose not to allow spells and effects to effect you if they would not be capable of affecting both your original creature type and the animal creature type.
42|You can make Diplomacy and Intimidate checks to make creatures respond to you with hostility. No matter which skill you use, antagonizing a creature takes a standard action that does not provoke attacks of opportunity, and has a DC equal to 10+ the target's Hit Dice + the target's Wisdom modifier. You cannot make this check against a creature that does not understand you or has an Intelligence score of 3 or lower. Before you make these checks, you may make a Sense Motive check (DC 20) as a swift action to gain an insight bonus on these Diplomacy or Intimitade checks equal to your Charisma bonus until the end of your next turn. The benefits you gain for this check depend on the skill you use. This is a mind-affecting effect.
43|You can breathe water as well as air.
44|You gain the amphibious special quality. Your swim speed increases by +10 feet.
45|As a standard action, you can sacrifice a prepared spell or unused spell slot of 1st level or higher and transform it into a ray, targeting any foe within 30 feet as a ranged touch attack. This attack deals 2d6 points of damage plus an additional 1d6 points of damage for every level of the spell or spell slot you sacrificed. 0-level spells may not be sacrificed in this manner.
46|When you use Arcane Blast, you may halve the damage dice to also perform your choice of either a trip or bull rush combat maneuver against the target of the blast. You can't move with an opponent you bull rush with this feat. You gain a bonus on your combat maneuver check for this attempt equal to half the spell level of the spell you sacrificed when using Arcane Blast, and you can substitute your Intelligence or Charisma modifier in place of your Strength modifier when determining your combat maneuver bonus.  In addition, you can expend one use of mythic power to change the damage dice of your Arcane Blast to d8s instead of d6s.
47|As a immediate action, you can sacrifice a prepared spell or unused spell slot of 1st level or higher and gain a deflection bonus to AC equal to the level of the spell or spell slot you sacrificed for 1 round. 0-level spells may not be sacrificed in this manner.
48|You add half your tier to the deflection bonus granted to your AC when you use your Arcane Shield. You can expend one use of mythic power when using this feat to extend the duration to a number of rounds equal to your tier.
49|As a swift action, you can imbue your weapons with a fraction of your power. For 1 round, your weapons deal +1 damage and are treated as magic for the purpose of overcoming damage reduction. For every five caster levels you possess, this bonus increases by +1, to a maximum of +5 at 20th level.
50|Whenever you use Arcane Strike to enhance your weapons, the effect lasts for 1 minute instead of 1 round. If you expend one use of mythic power when using Arcane Strike, you can also add any one magic weapon special ability with a base price modifier of +1 to your weapons. This base price modifier increases to +2 at 4th tier, +3 at 7th tier, and +4 at 10th tier.
51|While you are bloodraging, you don't need to spend a swift action to use your Arcane Strike—it is always in effect. When you use this ability with Vital Strike, Improved Vital Strike, or Greater Vital Strike, the bonus on damage rolls for Arcane Strike is multiplied by the number of times (two, three, or four) you roll damage dice for one of those feats.
52|If you have dispel magic prepared or can cast it spontaneously, when you score a critical hit against an opponent, you may use a swift action to cast dispel magic to make a targeted dispel against that opponent.
53|If you have a weapon that is augmented by your Arcane Strike feat, when you damage a creature with an attack made with that weapon, that creature takes a –2 penalty on saving throws against spells and spell-like abilities. This effect lasts for 1 round.
54|Choose a 0-level spell from the sorcerer/wizard spell list. You can cast this spell three times per day as a spell-like ability. The caster level is equal to your character level. The save DC is 10 + your Charisma modifier.
55|You don't die until your negative hit point total is equal to or greater than 4 + your Constitution score. Once per day as a standard action, you can force yourself to carry on by strength of will alone, gaining 1 temporary hit point per hit die. These temporary hit points last for 10 minutes.  Normal: You die when your negative hit point total is equal to or greater than your Constitution score.  Goal: You meet in person and hear the words of your deity or your deity's chosen herald. If you worship a pantheon of deities, you must meet and hear a member of that pantheon—a herald does not suffice in this case. If you worship no specific deity, you must hear the words of an appropriate entity of the GM's choice.  Completion
56|You gain a +2 natural armor bonus.  Special: If you have the scaled skin racial trait, you instead gain resistance 5 to two of the following energy types that you don't have resistance to already: cold, electricity, and fire.
57|When you wear a type of armor with which you are proficient, the armor check penalty for that armor applies only to Dexterity- and Strength-based skill checks.  Normal: A character who is wearing armor with which he is not proficient applies its armor check penalty to attack rolls and to all skill checks that involve moving.  Special: All characters except monks, sorcerers, and wizards automatically have Light Armor Proficiency as a bonus feat. They need not select it.
58|As a swift action, reduce the arcane spell failure chance due to the armor you are wearing by 10% for any spells you cast this round.
59|You don't have to spend a swift action to gain the reduction to arcane spell failure chance from Arcane Armor Training. Furthermore, if you're wearing light armor, reduce your arcane spell failure chance by 20%.
60|See Armor Proficiency, Light.  Normal: See Armor Proficiency, Light.  Special: Barbarians, clerics, druids, fighters, paladins, and rangers automatically have Medium Armor Proficiency as a bonus feat. They need not select it.
61|As a swift action, reduce the arcane spell failure chance due to the armor you are wearing by 20% for any spells you cast this round. This bonus replaces, and does not stack with, the bonus granted by Arcane Armor Training.
62|See Armor Proficiency, Light.  Normal: See Armor Proficiency, Light.  Special: Fighters and paladins automatically have Heavy Armor Proficiency as a bonus feat. They need not select it.
63|You can modify a spell to imitate the mythic version of that spell. An ascendant spell uses the mythic version of the spell, but doesn't count as a mythic spell for the purposes of effects that interact with the spell, unless you are a mythic creature. You can't use the augmented version of the mythic spell, or use spells effects that require you to expend uses of mythic power (even if you have uses of mythic power available).  An ascendant spell uses up a spell slot 5 levels higher than the spell's actual level.
64|Your bestial nature manifests itself in one of the following ways. You choose the manifestation when you choose the feat, and then you cannot change it.
65|Your bestial nature manifests itself in one of the following ways. You choose the manifestation when you choose the feat, and you can't change it.
66|You get a +2 bonus on Climb and Swim skill checks. If you have 10 or more ranks in one of these skills, the bonus increases to +4 for that skill.
67|The bonus on Climb and Swim skill checks from Athletic increases by 2. In addition, you can expend one use of mythic power to treat a Climb or Swim check as if you had rolled a natural 20. You must decide to use this ability before making the roll.
68|Select one type of terrain from the ranger class's favored terrain class feature (except urban). While you are in your selected terrain type, your natural healing rate (the amount of hit points and ability damage you heal from a full night's rest) doubles.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take it, it applies to a different terrain type.
69|When you are in a terrain type you have selected the Attuned to the Wild feat for, you gain a +2 dodge bonus to Armor Class. If you are in an area that qualifies as more than one kind of terrain, these bonuses do not stack; you receive the bonus for only one of the  terrain types.
70|When you are in a terrain type you have selected the Attuned to the Wild feat for, you gain a +4 bonus on Perception checks made to act in the surprise round of combat. If you act in the surprise round, you gain blindsense out to a range of 30 feet during the surprise round. If you are in an area that qualifies as more than one kind of terrain, these bonuses do not stack; you receive the bonus for only one terrain type.
71|When you are in a terrain type you have selected the Attuned to the Wild feat for, you gain a +2 bonus on caster level checks, concentration checks, and, Knowledge (arcana) and Spellcraft checks. If you are in an area that qualifies as more than one kind of terrain, these bonuses do not stack; you receive the bonus for only one of the  terrain types.
72|You gain a +2 bonus on saves made to resist aversions to objects, sounds, and materials appropriate to your vampire type (such as garlic, holy symbols, and mirrors for a moroi). When confronted with such things, you can attempt a saving throw immediately instead of after 1 round.
73|While you are flanked and adjacent to an ally with this feat, you receive a +2 circumstance bonus to AC against attacks from opponents flanking you.
74|While you are adjacent to an ally who is flanked and also has this feat, you can spend a swift action to gain  a +2 bonus to AC against all flankers until the start of your next turn.
75|You are treated as one size smaller for the purpose of calculating penalties for squeezing, and gain a +5 competence bonus on Escape Artist checks. If you possess 10 or more Hit Dice, this bonus increases to +4.
76|Once per day as a move action, you can gain the benefit of a combat feat that you do not possess for 1 minute. You must otherwise meet all of the feat's requirements.  Special: If you have the martial flexibility class feature, this feat instead grants you one additional use per day of that ability.
77|A number of times per day equal to your Charisma bonus, you can let out a battle cry as a swift action. When you do, allies within 30 feet who can hear you gain a +1 morale bonus on attack rolls and a +4 morale bonus on saving throws against fear. This effect lasts for 1 minute.  If an ally is under the effect of this feat and fails a saving throw against a fear effect, she can choose to end the battle cry's effect on her to reroll the failed save. The ally must take the result of the reroll, even if it's lower. Each ally can use this effect only once per use of this feat.
78|When attempting a concentration check caused by receiving damage (including ongoing damage), you reduce the damage taken by 50% for the purposes of determining the concentration check DC.  Goal: Over time, provoke at least 20 attacks of opportunity for casting conjuration (healing) spells on allies. These spells don't have to succeed to count.  Completion
79|Select one of the following creature types: elephant, pteranodon, rhinoceros, stegosaurus, or triceratops. Add this creature type to your list of possible animal companions or mounts. When summoning a creature of the selected type to serve as a mount or companion, treat your effective druid level as if it were two levels higher (to a maximum of your character level). If the creature is large enough for you to ride, it gains the combat training general purpose (see Handle Animal) at no cost.
80|When you take this feat, choose one domain granted by your deity. You can use the 1st-level domain ability that clerics of that domain can use a number of times or rounds per day, but you can use it only once per day or 1 round per day, whichever is appropriate. Your effective cleric level in regard to this ability is 1st level. If the domain has a 1st-level ability that does not meet this specification, you cannot use it.  Special: You can take this feat twice. When you take it a second time, you choose another domain granted by your deity.  If you grossly violate the code of conduct required by your deity, your alignment shifts so that it is more than one step away from your deity's, or you no longer worship your deity, you lose access to this feat. You can regain it once you atone for your misdeeds to your deity (see the atonement spell).
81|Once per day, you can use the paladin's lay on hands ability. Your effective paladin level is equal to 1/2 your character level (minimum 1). If you already have (or later gain) the lay on hands ability, you instead gain one extra use of lay on hands each day.  Special: This feat counts as having the lay on hands ability for the purpose of qualifying for feats such as Extra Lay on Hands.  If you grossly violate the code of conduct required by your deity, your alignment shifts so that it is more than one step away from your deity's, or you no longer worship your deity, you lose access to this feat. You can regain it once you atone for your misdeeds to your deity (see the atonement spell).
82|Once per day as an immediate action, when you are hit by a melee attack, you can force the opponent who made the attack to reroll it with a –4 penalty. The opponent must take the result of the second attack roll. This is a supernatural ability.  Special: If you take this feat and don't already have all black fur, your fur turns completely black when you takes this feat.
83|While you are bloodraging, at the end of a charge you can expend a bloodrager spell slot as a swift action to imbue your charge attack with extra power. You deal an additional 1d6 points of damage per level of the spell slot expended. This extra damage is force damage, and it's not multiplied in the case of a critical hit.  If your bloodline has a specific energy type associated with it (as the elemental or draconic bloodlines do), you can increase the damage to 1d8 points per level of the spell slot expended, and this extra damage is of that type.
84|When you trigger your painful stare, the target takes an amount of bleed damage equal to 1/3 your mesmerist level. Bleed damage from multiple uses of Bleeding Stare doesn't stack.
85|All of your attacks are treated as having whatever alignment components you and your deity share for the purpose of overcoming damage reduction.  Special: If you grossly violate the code of conduct required by your deity, your alignment shifts so that it is more than one step away from your deity's, or you no longer worship your deity, you lose access to this feat. You can regain it once you atone for your misdeeds to your deity (see the atonement spell).
86|In melee, every time you miss because of concealment (see Combat), you can reroll your miss chance percentile roll one time to see if you actually hit.  An invisible attacker gets no advantages related to hitting you in melee. That is, you don't lose your Dexterity bonus to Armor Class, and the attacker doesn't get the usual +2 bonus for being invisible. The invisible attacker's bonuses do still apply for ranged attacks, however.  You do not need to make Acrobatics skill checks to move at full speed while blinded.  Normal: Regular attack roll modifiers for invisible attackers trying to hit you apply, and you lose your Dexterity bonus to AC. The speed reduction for darkness and poor visibility also applies.  Special: The Blind-Fight feat is of no use against a character who is the subject of a blink spell.
87|As a swift action, you can expend one use of mythic power to ignore all miss chances due to concealment or total concealment for a number of rounds equal to your tier.
88|When you are within an area of dim light or darkness, you gain a +1 bonus on attack rolls against enemies that are also within dim light or darkness.
89|Your melee attacks ignore the miss chance for less than total concealment. You may still reroll your miss chance percentile roll for total concealment.  If you successfully pinpoint an invisible or hidden attacker within 30 feet, that attacker gets no advantages related to hitting you with ranged attacks. That is, you don't lose your Dexterity bonus to Armor Class, and the attacker doesn't get the usual +2 bonus for being invisible.  Special: The Improved Blind-Fight feat is of no use against a character who is the subject of a blink spell.
90|Your melee attacks ignore the miss chance for less than total concealment, and you treat opponents with total concealment as if they had normal concealment (20% miss chance instead of 50%). You may still reroll a miss chance percentile roll as normal.  If you successfully pinpoint an invisible or hidden attacker, that attacker gets no advantages related to hitting you with ranged attacks, regardless of the range. That is, you don't lose your Dexterity bonus to Armor Class, and the attacker doesn't get the usual +2 bonus for being invisible.  Special: The Greater Blind-Fight feat is of no use against a character who is the subject of a blink spell.
91|While you have concealment from an opponent, you gain a +2 bonus on attack and damage rolls against that opponent.
92|Once per round, against an opponent from whom you have concealment, you can spend a swift action to make a Bluff check to feint.  Normal: Feinting is a standard action.
93|While you have concealment, your opponents' miss chance against you increases by 10%. If an opponent misses you due to your concealment, you can spend an immediate action to move 5 feet, this movement does not provoke attacks of opportunity and does not count as a 5-foot step.
94|You can fire a shot at a wall or piece of solid terrain, and have it ricochet off. When you do, use the square immediately in front of the wall or piece of solid terrain to determine line of sight to a target, and this square is considered the new origin square of the attack. Use that square to determine the effects of cover, and your own square to determine the effects of concealment. You can make this shot as long as you have at least 1 grit point. When making this shot, you can spend 1 grit point to ignore the effects of all cover or concealment. You must choose to spend the grit point before you make the attack roll.
95|Increase the damage of your beak attack to 1d6. Furthermore, when you confirm a critical hit with your beak attack, you also deal 1 point of bleed damage.  Special: The bleed effect from this feat stacks with that of the Bleeding Critical feat and similar effects, adding 1 point to your bleed damage.
"96|Choose one humanoid subtype, such as ""goblinoid"" (this subtype cannot be ""dhampir""). You have acquired a taste for the blood of creatures with this subtype. Whenever you drink fresh blood from such a creature, you gain 5 temporary hit points and a +1 bonus on checks and saves based on Constitution. The effects last 1 hour. If you feed multiple times, you continue to gain hit points to a maximum of 5 temporary hit points for every three Hit Dice you have, but the +1 bonus on Constitution-based skill checks and saving throws does not stack.  Normally, you can only drink blood from an opponent who is helpless, grappled, paralyzed, pinned, unconscious, or similarly disabled. If you have a bite attack, you can drink blood automatically as part of your bite attack; otherwise, you must first cut your target by dealing 1 hit point of damage with a slashing or piercing weapon (though you may feed upon a creature with severe wounds or a bleed effect without cutting it first). Once you cut the target, you can drink from its wound as a standard action. Drinking blood deals 2 points of Constitution damage to the creature you feed upon.  The blood must come from a living creature of the specified humanoid subtype. It cannot come from a dead or summoned creature. Feeding on unwilling intelligent creatures is an evil act."
97|If you use your Blood Drinker feat to drain 4 or more points of Constitution from a living creature, you gain a +2 bonus on damage rolls and a +1 bonus on Strength-based skill checks. This bonus lasts for a number of rounds equal to 1/2 your Hit Dice.
98|You can use your Blood Drinker feat on a dead creature of the appropriate humanoid subtype. The creature must have died less than 6 hours beforehand.  Normal: You only benefit from the Blood Drinker feat if you consume fresh blood from a living creature.
99|Choose a humanoid subtype or the monstrous humanoid type. You may use your Blood Drinker feat on creatures of this subtype or type.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you select it, choose a new humanoid subtype or the monstrous humanoid.
100|Whenever one of your allies is reduced to negative hit points or killed, you may enter a state similar to but less powerful than a barbarian's rage as a free action on your next turn. If you have the rage class feature and are already raging, your morale bonuses to Strength and Constitution increase by +2 for the duration of your rage. If you do not have the rage class feature, or you have no more rage rounds left, this weaker rage gives you all the benefits and penalties of a barbarian's rage, except your morale bonus to Strength and Constitution is only +2. In either case, this state lasts for 4 rounds.  As with a barbarian's rage, when this weaker rage ends, you are fatigued; if another ally falls before this duration ends, the weaker rage lasts for an additional 4 rounds. This feat does not allow you to enter a rage if you are fatigued. You may only use this feat if the fallen ally had at least as many Hit Dice as you (excluding conjured or summoned allies).
101|You take no penalty on attack rolls for using a lethal bludgeoning weapon to deal nonlethal damage.  Normal: You take a –4 penalty on attack rolls when using a lethal weapon to deal nonlethal damage. You cannot use a lethal weapon to deal nonlethal damage in a sneak attack.  Special: A rogue with this feat can use a lethal bludgeoning weapon to deal nonlethal damage with a sneak attack.
102|As an immediate action, you can double your DR against a single attack, to a maximum of DR 20. The type of the DR remains unchanged. If the attack you are guarding against is not successful, the increased damage reduction persists until you are hit with an attack or until the start of your next turn, whichever happens first. At the start of your next turn, you become fatigued. You cannot use this feat while you are fatigued.
103|By studying a spellbook for 10 minutes, you can change one spell you are able to cast using your minor magic or major magic rogue talent to one sorcerer/wizard spell of the same level contained in the spellbook. This change is permanent until you take the time to change it via this feat again.
104|Whenever you kill or knock unconscious an opponent with a melee attack, you gain temporary hit points equal to your Constitution bonus (minimum 1) until your next turn. These temporary hit points do not stack. You do not gain this bonus if the opponent is helpless or has less than half your Hit Dice.
105|Your natural weapons and unarmed strikes deal an additional 1d6 points of cold damage. Creatures that strike you with natural weapons or unarmed strikes take 1 point of cold damage.
106|Any items you throw with your rock throwing ability are chilled by your touch, dealing an additional 1d6 points of cold damage.
107|As a standard action, you can direct your icy stare against a single creature or object within 10 feet. Targeted creatures must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC = 10 + 1/2 your Hit Dice + your Charisma modifier) or take 1d6 points of cold damage. Unattended objects cannot attempt a saving throw. Creatures damaged by the spell must succeed at a Fortitude save or take 1 point of Strength damage.  This feat doesn't grant an actual gaze attack—foes and allies are not in danger simply by meeting your gaze.
108|Whenever a bouncing spell targeting a single creature has no effect on its intended target (whether due to spell resistance or a successful saving throw) you may, as a swift action, redirect it to target another eligible creature within range. The redirected spell behaves in all ways as if its new target were the original target for the spell. Spells that affect a target in any way (including a lesser effect from a successful saving throw) may not be redirected in this manner. A bouncing spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell's actual level.
109|As a standard action, expend 3 rounds of your bane class feature and make a melee touch attack with the weapon affected by bane. If you hit, your target takes no damage but is branded until the start of your next turn. While this brand remains, your allies' weapons are considered to have the bane ability with which your weapon is imbued when they attack the branded creature.
110|You get a +2 bonus on all Knowledge and Profession skill checks, and can make checks with those skills untrained.
111|When serving as a commander using the mass combat rules presented in Chapter 4 of Ultimate Campaign, you can add your class level to your army's Morale checks in place of your Charisma modifier.
112|You gain a +2 bonus on Craft (alchemy) and Profession (brewer) checks, and you add +1 to the DC of any ingested poison you create.
113|You can create a potion of any 3rd-level or lower spell that you know and that targets one or more creatures or objects. Brewing a potion takes 2 hours if its base price is 250 gp or less, otherwise brewing a potion takes 1 day for each 1,000 gp in its base price. When you create a potion, you set the caster level, which must be sufficient to cast the spell in question and no higher than your own level. To brew a potion, you must use up raw materials costing one half this base price. See the magic item creation rules in Magic Items for more information.  When you create a potion, you make any choices that you would normally make when casting the spell. Whoever drinks the potion is the target of the spell.
114|Once per day, when you clear your mind to regain spell slots, you can create a sanguine elixir. When you do, pick one of your bloodline powers. You transfer that power into a small potion that any creature can drink to temporarily gain the benefit of your bloodline power. Creating a sanguine elixir takes 1 hour, and requires special oils and distillates worth 100 gp, and when you make the sanguine elixir, you lose access to the bloodline power until the next time you clear your mind to regain spell slots.  When a creature drinks a sanguine elixir, it can activate the bloodline power anytime before the end of its next turn, as if it had access to that bloodline power. A creature that drinks the elixir cannot gain the benefit if its character level does not equal or exceed the minimum level of the bloodline power. Any level-dependent effects use the character level of the creature that drinks the sanguine elixir, or your sorcerer level, whichever is lower. Drinking a sanguine elixir is just like drinking a potion. A sanguine elixir is treated as a magic item with your caster level.  Sanguine elixirs are extremely unstable. They lose their potency 1 day after they are created.
115|Whenever you make a melee attack and hit your opponent, you can use a free action to grant that opponent a +2 bonus on attack and damage rolls against you until the end of your next turn or until your opponent attacks you, whichever happens first. If that opponent attacks you with this bonus, it provokes attacks of opportunity from your allies who have this feat.
116|Whenever you use Broken Wing Gambit and an opponent attacks you as a result, each ally who has this feat and is within 30 feet of that opponent can attempt a ranged attack against it as an immediate action. The ally's ranged weapon must be in hand, loaded, and ready to be fired or thrown in order to make this attack possible.  An ally who has this feat and Broken Wing Gambit can instead use Broken Wing Gambit to attempt an attack of opportunity against the foe, but cannot attempt both that attack of opportunity and this ranged attack.  Open Game License.
117|As a standard action, you may make a melee attack with a –2 penalty on the attack roll. If the attack damages your opponent, you may make an Intimidate check to demoralize that opponent as a free action.  Normal: Intimidating an opponent is a standard action.
118|You deal an extra 1d4 points of fire damage when you attack with fire from an alchemical or nonmagical source (such as with alchemical fire or torches) and gain a +4 competence bonus on Reflex saving throws made to avoid catching on fire or to put yourself out when on fire. Additional damage caused by this feat does not apply to magical attacks (such as an alchemist's bomb) or to splash damage.
119|The acid or fire effects of the affected spell adhere to the creature, causing more damage the next round. When a creature takes acid or fire damage from the affected spell, that creature takes damage equal to 2× the spell's actual level at the start of its next turn. The damage is acid or fire, as determined by the spell's descriptor. If a burning spell has both the fire and acid descriptor, the caster chooses what kind of damage is dealt by the burning spell effect. A burning spell uses up a slot two levels higher than the spell's actual level.
120|You gain a +2 racial bonus on saving throws against diseases and ingested poisons (but not other poisons). You receive a +2 bonus on Survival skill checks to find food for yourself (and only yourself).
121|When you successfully use improved evasion to avoid taking damage, you can move up to half your speed as an immediate action. This movement provokes attacks of opportunity as normal.
122|As long as you have at least one spell-like ability unused from your gnome magic racial trait, you gain a +2 racial bonus on all Bluff, Disguise, and Sleight of Hand checks you make. At 10th level, these bonuses increase to +4.  Special: This feat counts as the Deceitful feat for the purposes of all prerequisites.
123|You do not suffer any penalties for using an improvised melee weapon. Unarmed opponents are flat-footed against any attacks you make with an improvised melee weapon.  Normal: You take a –4 penalty on attack rolls made with an improvised weapon.
124|The damage dealt when you use improvised weapons increases by your tier. You also gain a bonus to CMD equal to your tier when an opponent attempts to sunder or disarm an improvised weapon you're wielding.
125|You do not suffer any penalties for using an improvised weapon. Increase the amount of damage dealt by the improvised weapon by one step (for example, 1d4 becomes 1d6) to a maximum of 1d8 (2d6 if the improvised weapon is two-handed). The improvised weapon has a critical threat range of 19–20, with a critical multiplier of ×2.
126|You can take the Aspect of the Beast feat  even if you do not meet the normal prerequisites. Furthermore, your catlike nature manifests in one of the following ways. You choose the manifestation when you take this feat, and cannot change it later.  Enhanced Senses (Ex): If you have low-light vision, you gain the scent catfolk racial trait. If you have the scent racial trait, you gain low-light vision. Fast Sprinter (Ex): You gain a 10-foot racial bonus to your speed when using the charge, run, or withdraw actions. If you have the sprinter racial trait, your racial bonus to speed when using the charge, run, or withdraw action increases to a 20-foot bonus. Sharp Claws (Ex): If you do not have the cat's claws racial trait or the claws of the beast manifestation from the Aspect of the Beast feat , you gain the cat's claws racial trait. If you have either the cat's claws racial trait or the claws of the beast manifestation, your claw damage increases to 1d6.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you select it, you must choose a different manifestation.
127|When fighting defensively or using total defense, your dodge bonus to AC increases by 2.
128|Whenever you fight defensively or use the total defense action, allies gain a luck bonus to AC and CMD equal to 1/2 the dodge bonus you gain from the action you are taking. Allies only gain this bonus while they are adjacent to you.
129|Once per day, you can make a single melee attack while taking the total defense action. You take a –4 penalty on attack rolls when making this attack. You also gain a +4 bonus on critical confirmation rolls made while fighting defensively or making an attack of opportunity using this feat.
130|Once per day, when fighting defensively or making an attack of opportunity while taking the total defense action with the Desperate Swing feat, you take no penalty on the attack roll.
131|While fighting defensively or taking the total defense action, you gain a bonus on your Reflex saving throws and to your CMD equal to 1/2 of the dodge bonus to AC you gained from taking that action.
132|Your animal companion, familiar, or mount gains the celestial template and becomes a magical beast, though you may still treat it as an animal when using Handle Animal, wild empathy, or any other spells or class abilities that specifically affect animals.
133|When the target of your challenge ability is killed or knocked unconscious, you can declare a new challenge target within 30 feet as an immediate action. This action must be taken immediately upon your initial challenge target's defeat, and you can't take it later if you are unable to act at the time. If you declare a new challenge using this feat, it doesn't count against your total daily uses of challenge. You can chain together a number of challenges beyond the first equal to your Charisma bonus (minimum 1).
134|You gain a pool that holds 3 points of serpent-fire ki, which you can use only to open or maintain chakras. These serpent-fire ki points are replenished at the same time you replenish the points in your regular ki pool.
135|Your pool of serpent-fire ki increases to 4 points. When you maintain your chakras as a swift action without opening a new chakra, you can choose to attempt either the Fortitude save or the Will save instead of both.  In addition, after you stop spending ki to maintain your chakras, the kundalini energy lingers in your body. On the first round during which you spend no ki to maintain your chakras, your highest chakra closes and you can spend a swift action to use any one of the abilities of your remaining open chakras. On the next round after that, all of your chakras close, and you must spend 1 point of ki and a swift action to start again from your root chakra.
136|Your pool of serpent-fire ki increases to 5 points. You can spend 3 ki points instead of 1 when you open or maintain a chakra to gain the benefits of two chakras instead of one in that round. If you are opening or maintaining your crown chakra, this stacks with the crown chakra's special power, allowing you to gain the benefits of three chakras in a round.
137|As a swift action, you can declare a single combat challenge to one foe within 50 feet and in line of sight. Upon doing so, you gain a +1 bonus on attack rolls and a +1 dodge bonus to AC against that foe as long as no one else threatens that opponent or until the single combat challenge ends. If another combatant attacks you or your foe, the challenge ends and you take a —2 penalty on attack rolls and to AC for 1 round. Though you can declare a single combat challenge at will, once you declare it on a foe you can't declare it on the same foe for another 24 hours.  Goal: Defeat an appropriate number of challenging foes in single combat. These combats must not be interrupted by other creatures, and the foes must not have already been substantially injured or impaired prior to combat with you.  Completion
138|You can store a number of affirmations up to your Charisma bonus (minimum 1) to use at any time, not just within the next 24 hours. You can use an affirmation to cast lesser confusion as a spell-like ability as a standard action, with a caster level equal to your Hit Dice. The duration of this effect on a failed save is 1d4 rounds. Lastly, you gain a +2 bonus on weapon and spell damage rolls against lawful creatures. This is an alignment-based effect.  Residual: If you have this feat but are no longer chaotic neutral, you continue to gain the +2 bonus on weapon and spell damage against lawful creatures.
139|You gain a +2 bonus on weapon and spell damage rolls against good and evil creatures. You also gain a +2 bonus on weapon and spell damage rolls against lawful and chaotic creatures. These bonuses stack with each other.  Residual: You gain no benefit from this feat if you are not of neutral alignment.
140|You can store a number of affirmations up to your Charisma bonus (minimum 1) to use at any time, not just within the next 24 hours. You can also use an affirmation to treat an effect on you from a spell, magic item, or other alignment-based effect as if you were neither chaotic nor evil. You can choose to do so after any attack roll hits you with such an effect or you fail a saving throw against such an effect. Lastly, you gain a +2 bonus on weapon and spell damage rolls against lawful and good creatures (or +4 if the creature is both lawful and good). This is an alignment-based effect.  Residual: If you have this feat but you are no longer chaotic evil, you continue to gain the +2 bonus on weapon and spell damage rolls against lawful and good creatures (or +4 if the creature is both lawful and good).
141|You can store a number of affirmations up to your Charisma bonus (minimum 1) to use at any time, not just within the next 24 hours. You can also use an affirmation to gain the effects of freedom of movement for 1 round. Lastly, you gain a +2 bonus on weapon and spell damage rolls against evil and lawful creatures (or +4 if the creature is both evil and lawful). This is an alignment-based effect.  Residual: If you have this feat but you are no longer chaotic good, you continue to gain the +2 bonus on weapon and spell damage rolls against evil and lawful creatures (or +4 if the creature is both lawful and evil).
142|You can store a number of affirmations up to your Charisma bonus (minimum 1) to use at any time, not just within the next 24 hours. You can use an affirmation and touch a creature as a standard action to remove a single condition or harmful effect from the list of paladin mercies (using your Hit Dice as your paladin level to determine which mercies you can use and their effects). Lastly, you gain a +2 bonus on weapon and spell damage rolls against evil creatures. This is an alignment-based effect.  Residual: If you have this feat but you are no longer neutral good, you continue to gain the +2 bonus on weapon and spell damage rolls against evil creatures.
143|You can store a number of affirmations up to your Charisma bonus (minimum 1) to use at any time, not just within the next 24 hours. You can use an affirmation and touch a creature as a standard action to bestow a single condition or harmful effect from the list of antipaladin cruelties (using your Hit Dice as your antipaladin level to determine which cruelties you can use and their effects). Lastly, you gain a +2 bonus on weapon and spell damage rolls against good creatures. This is an alignment-based effect.  Residual: If you have this feat but you are no longer neutral evil, you continue to gain the +2 bonus on weapon and spell damage rolls against good creatures.
144|You can store a number of affirmations up to your Charisma bonus (minimum 1) to use at any time, not just within the next 24 hours. You can use an affirmation to treat the effect of a spell, magic item, or other alignment-based effect on you as if you were neither lawful nor good. You can choose to do so after any attack roll hits you with such an effect or you fail a saving throw against such an effect. Lastly, you gain a +2 bonus on weapon and spell damage rolls against chaotic and evil creatures (or +4 if the creature is both chaotic and evil). This is an alignment-based effect.  Residual: If you have this feat but you are no longer lawful good, you continue to gain the +2 bonus on weapon and spell damage rolls against chaotic and evil creatures (or +4 if the creature is both chaotic and evil).
145|You can store a number of affirmations up to your Charisma bonus (minimum 1) to use at any time, not just within the next 24 hours. You can use an affirmation to cast calm emotions as a spell-like ability as a standard action, with a caster level equal to your Hit Dice. Lastly, you gain a +2 bonus on weapon and spell damage rolls against chaotic creatures. This is an alignment-based effect.  Residual: If you have this feat but you are no longer lawful neutral, you continue to gain the +2 bonus on weapon and spell damage rolls against chaotic creatures.
146|You can store a number of affirmations up to your Charisma bonus (minimum 1) to use at any time, not just within the next 24 hours. You can use an affirmation to cast hold person as a spell-like ability as a standard action, with a caster level equal to your Hit Dice. You gain a +2 bonus on weapon and spell damage rolls against chaotic and good creatures (or +4 if the creature is both chaotic and good). This is an alignment-based effect.  Residual: If you have this feat but you are no longer lawful evil, you continue to gain the +2 bonus on weapon and spell damage rolls against chaotic and good creatures (or a +4 bonus if the creature is both chaotic and good).  Open Game License.
147|When you channel energy to heal, you can instead deliver a warpriest's blessing to a single willing creature (including yourself) in the area that otherwise would have been healed by your channeled energy. The blessing must be one that requires a standard action and affects one or more creatures. If the blessing would normally affect multiple targets, you affect only a single target. The target receives the blessing in place of the healing and any other effects of the channeled energy. (This application doesn't count toward your uses of blessings per day.)
148|As a full-round action that provokes attacks of opportunity, you can expend three uses of your channel energy class feature to restore a dead creature to life as if you had cast the breath of life spell (Core Rulebook 251).
149|As a swift action, you can spend a use of your channel energy to grant yourself a +2 deflection bonus while using a shield. This bonus lasts 1 minute per cleric level or effective cleric level. While you benefit from this bonus, allies with shields also gain a +2 deflection bonus while they are adjacent to you.
150|When you channel energy to deal damage, you may choose to affect only a single target within 30 feet. In addition to dealing damage, if that single target fails its saving throw, you may pull or push (Pathfinder RPG Bestiary 303) the target up to 5 feet for every 2d6 points of channel energy damage you are capable of dealing.
151|When using Channel Force, you can affect all creatures in a 60-foot line or a 30-foot cone-shaped burst. You must choose to either push or pull all creatures within the affected area that fail their saves.
152|When using Improved Channel Force, you can affect all creatures in a 30-foot-radius burst.
153|As a swift action, you can expend one use of channel energy to grant your weapon attacks a bonus on damage rolls equal to the number of dice of your channel energy. This extra damage is force damage. This benefit lasts for your next three weapon attacks or until the end of the combat encounter, whichever comes first.
154|When you use channel energy to deal damage, your inquisitor levels count as cleric levels for determining the number of damage dice and the saving throw DC.
155|Before you make a melee attack roll, you can choose to spend one use of your channel energy ability as a swift action. If you channel positive energy and you hit an undead creature, that creature takes an amount of additional damage equal to the damage dealt by your channel positive energy ability. If you channel negative energy and you hit a living creature, that creature takes an amount of additional damage equal to the damage dealt by your channel negative energy ability. Your target can make a Will save, as normal, to halve this additional damage. If your attack misses, the channel energy ability is still expended with no effect.
156|When you use Channel Smite against a living creature with a good alignment, you treat all 1s on the channel smite damage dice as 2s.  If your target is either a good outsider or a divine caster who serves a good deity, you are considered 2 levels higher when determining how many channel energy damage dice you roll when using Channel Smite.
157|When using Channel Smite, you gain a bonus on your attack roll equal to the number of d6s granted by your channel energy class feature. This is either a sacred bonus (if channeling positive energy) or a profane bonus (if channeling negative energy). If your attack misses the target, you can expend one use of mythic power as a free action to release the channeled energy, producing the normal effects of your channel energy class feature centered on the creature you were attempting to smite.
158|Before making any melee attacks on your turn, you can use a swift action to expend one daily use of your channel energy class feature. The dice from your channel energy feature form a pool of damage dice you can access to further damage creatures normally harmed by the energy you are channeling—undead for positive energy, living creatures for negative energy. Prior to making each melee attack, allocate dice from the pool to be used as extra damage dice if you hit. Your target can make a Will save, as normal, to halve this extra damage. This extra damage is not multiplied when you score a critical hit. If you miss, the extra damage dice remain in your pool, but any dice left unexpended at the end of your turn are wasted.
159|With your deity's favored weapon, you can use your Wisdom modifier instead of your Strength or Dexterity modifier on attack rolls.
160|When making attacks with your deity's favored weapon, you can add your Wisdom modifier instead of your Strength or Dexterity modifier on damage rolls.
161|You can take 10 on Bluff checks to convince others you are telling the truth, so long as your story makes you appear innocent. You gain a +2 bonus on Disguise skill checks to pose as a human child, and ignore the check penalties for disguising yourself as a different race and age category while doing so.
162|You can see through fog, mist, and clouds, without penalty, ignoring any cover or concealment bonuses from such effects. If the effect is created by magic, this feat instead triples the distance you can see without penalty.
163|You get a +4 bonus on concentration checks made to cast a spell or use a spell-like ability when casting on the defensive or while grappled.
164|You do not need to make concentration checks when affected by vigorous or violent motion or by violent weather. You gain a +2 bonus on all other concentration checks.
165|You can choose to take a –1 penalty on melee attack rolls and combat maneuver checks to gain a +1 dodge bonus to your Armor Class. When your base attack bonus reaches +4, and every +4 thereafter, the penalty increases by –1 and the dodge bonus increases by +1. You can only choose to use this feat when you declare that you are making an attack or a full-attack action with a melee weapon. The effects of this feat last until your next turn.
166|Whenever you use Combat Expertise, you gain an additional +2 dodge bonus to your Armor Class. You can expend one use of mythic power to negate the penalties on melee attack rolls and combat maneuver checks caused by using Combat Expertise for 1 minute.
167|You are considered to be flanking an opponent if at least two of your allies are threatening that opponent, regardless of your actual positioning.  Normal: You must be positioned opposite an ally to flank an opponent.
168|When you and at least two of your allies are adjacent to an opponent, you can attempt the aid another action as a move action.  Normal: Aid another is a standard action.
169|You do not provoke an attack of opportunity when performing a dirty trick combat maneuver. In addition, you receive a +2 bonus on checks made to attempt a dirty trick. You also receive a +2 bonus to your Combat Maneuver Defense when an opponent tries a dirty trick on you.  Normal: You provoke an attack of opportunity when performing a dirty trick combat maneuver.
170|You receive a +2 bonus on checks made to attempt a dirty trick. This bonus stacks with the bonus granted by Improved Dirty Trick. Whenever you successfully perform a dirty trick, the penalty lasts for 1d4 rounds, plus 1 round for every 5 by which your attack exceeds the target's CMD. In addition, removing the condition requires the target to spend a standard action.  Normal: The condition imposed by a dirty trick lasts for 1 round plus 1 round for every 5 by which your attack exceeds the target's CMD. Removing the condition requires the target to spend a move action.
171|You gain a bonus equal to half your tier on checks to attempt a dirty trick, and to your CMD when an opponent attempts to perform a dirty trick on you. These bonuses stack with those granted by Improved Dirty Trick.  Furthermore, you can make an attack of opportunity against any creature that attempts a dirty trick maneuver against you, unless it also has this feat.
172|On your turn, you can perform a single dirty trick combat maneuver (Advanced Players Guide 320) in place of one of your melee attacks. You must choose the melee attack with the highest base attack bonus to make the dirty trick combat maneuver.  Normal: A dirty trick combat maneuver is a standard action.
173|You do not provoke an attack of opportunity when performing a disarm combat maneuver. In addition, you receive a +2 bonus on checks made to disarm a foe. You also receive a +2 bonus to your Combat Maneuver Defense whenever an opponent tries to disarm you.  Normal: You provoke an attack of opportunity when performing a disarm combat maneuver.
174|While wielding two weapons, whenever you successfully use one weapon to disarm an opponent, you can spend a swift action to attack the opponent you attempted to disarm using your other weapon.
175|Whenever you score a critical hit with a melee attack, you can disarm your opponent, in addition to the normal damage dealt by the attack. If your confirmation roll exceeds your opponent's CMD, you may disarm your opponent as if from the disarm combat maneuver. This does not provoke an attack of opportunity.  Normal: You must perform a disarm combat maneuver to disarm an opponent.  Special: You can only apply the effects of one of the following feats to a given critical hit: Bull Rush Strike, Disarming Strike, Repositioning Strike, Sundering Strike, or Tripping Strike. You may choose to use this feat after you make your confirmation roll.
176|You receive a +2 bonus on checks made to disarm a foe. This bonus stacks with the bonus granted by Improved Disarm. Whenever you successfully disarm an opponent, the weapon lands 15 feet away from its previous wielder, in a random direction.  Normal: Disarmed weapons and gear land at the feet of the disarmed creature.
177|You gain a bonus equal to half your tier on checks to disarm, and to your CMD when an opponent tries to disarm you. These bonuses stack with those granted by Improved Disarm.  Furthermore, you can make an attack of opportunity against any creature that attempts to disarm you, unless it also has this feat.
178|You can make a Bluff check to feint in combat as a move action.  Normal: Feinting in combat is a standard action.
179|You gain a +2 bonus on feint checks made while wielding a weapon that deals fire damage. Anytime you successfully feint a creature while using such a weapon, you may deal its fire damage to the enemy.
180|If you successfully feint an opponent, you can trick that opponent into accepting a one-handed object you are holding instead of denying that opponent its Dexterity bonus to AC against your next attack. The opponent must have appendages capable of holding the object you offer, and it must have one such appendage free to take the object.  Special: An alchemist who has the delayed bomb alchemist discovery can use this feat to hand an enemy a delayed bomb. Such a delayed bomb detonates at the end of the alchemist's turn. If the bomb is in a creature's square at the end of the alchemist's turn, the bomb deals that creature a direct hit.
181|As a standard action, use Bluff to feint against an opponent. Instead of denying that opponent his Dexterity bonus to AC, a successful feint allows you to move up to your speed without provoking an attack of opportunity from the opponent you feinted for leaving the square you start in.
182|As a standard action, make a Bluff check against each opponent that currently threatens you. If you succeed against at least one opponent, you can move up to your speed. This movement does not provoke attacks of opportunity from any opponent you succeeded at feinting against.
183|Whenever you use Disengaging Feint or Disengaging Flourish, you can make a single melee attack against one opponent you succeeded at feinting against. That opponent is denied his Dexterity bonus to AC against this attack.
184|Whenever you use feint to cause an opponent to lose his Dexterity bonus, he loses that bonus until the beginning of your next turn, in addition to losing his Dexterity bonus against your next attack.  Normal: A creature you feint loses its Dexterity bonus against your next attack.
185|Whenever you make a successful Acrobatics check to move through an opponent's space, you can spend a swift action to make a Bluff check against that opponent to feint in combat.  Special: If you have the Underfoot feat and the opponent is larger than you, you gain a +2 bonus on the Bluff check this feat allows.
186|You do not provoke an attack of opportunity when performing a reposition combat maneuver. In addition, you receive a +2 bonus on checks made to reposition a foe. You also receive a +2 bonus to your Combat Maneuver Defense when an opponent tries to reposition you.  Normal: You provoke an attack of opportunity when performing a reposition combat maneuver.
187|You receive a +2 bonus on checks made to reposition a foe. This bonus stacks with the bonus granted by Improved Reposition. Whenever you reposition a foe, his movement provokes attacks of opportunity from all of your allies (but not you).  Normal: Creatures moved by reposition do not provoke attacks of opportunity.
188|You gain a bonus equal to half your tier on checks to attempt a reposition combat maneuver, and to your CMD when an opponent attempts to perform a reposition combat maneuver against you. These bonuses stack with those granted by Improved Reposition.  Furthermore, you can make an attack of opportunity against any creature that attempts to reposition you, unless it also has this feat.
189|On your turn, you can perform a single reposition combat maneuver (Advanced Players Guide 320) in place of one of your melee attacks. You must choose the melee attack with the highest base attack bonus to make the reposition.  Normal: A reposition combat maneuver is a standard action.
190|Whenever you score a critical hit with a melee attack, you can move your opponent, in addition to the normal damage dealt by the attack. If your confirmation roll exceeds your opponent's CMD, you may move your opponent as if from the reposition combat maneuver. This does not provoke an attack of opportunity.  Normal: You must perform a reposition combat maneuver to reposition an opponent.  Special: You can only apply the effects of one of the following feats to a given critical hit: Bull Rush Strike, Disarming Strike, Repositioning Strike, Sundering Strike, or Tripping Strike. You may choose to use this feat after you make your confirmation roll.
191|You do not provoke an attack of opportunity when performing a steal combat maneuver. In addition, you receive a +2 bonus on checks made to steal an item from a foe. You also receive a +2 bonus to your Combat Maneuver Defense when an opponent tries to steal an item from you.  Normal: You provoke an attack of opportunity when performing a steal combat maneuver.
192|You receive a +2 bonus on checks made to steal an item from a foe. This bonus stacks with the bonus granted by Improved Steal. If you successfully steal an item from a foe during combat, it does not notice the theft until after combat is over or if it attempts to use the missing item.  Normal: Creatures automatically notice items taken from them through the steal combat maneuver.
193|You gain a bonus equal to half your tier on checks to attempt a steal combat maneuver, and to your CMD when an opponent attempts a steal combat maneuver on you. These bonuses stack with those granted by Improved Steal.  Furthermore, you can make an attack of opportunity against any creature that attempts a steal maneuver against, you unless it also has this feat.
194|On your turn, you can perform a single steal combat maneuver (Advanced Players Guide 320) in place of one of your melee attacks. You must choose the melee attack with the highest base attack bonus to make the steal.  Normal: A steal combat maneuver is a standard action.
195|You do not provoke an attack of opportunity when performing a trip combat maneuver. In addition, you receive a +2 bonus on checks made to trip a foe. You also receive a +2 bonus to your Combat Maneuver Defense whenever an opponent tries to trip you.  Normal: You provoke an attack of opportunity when performing a trip combat maneuver.
196|When using a full-attack action with a two-handed weapon, you can give up your regular attacks and instead attempt a trip combat maneuver at your highest base attack bonus against each opponent within reach. You must attempt a separate combat maneuver check against each opponent.
197|Whenever an opponent successfully trips you, you can attempt to trip that opponent as an immediate action.
198|When you break an opponent's grapple with a combat maneuver check or Escape Artist check, you can spend a swift action to make a trip attempt against that opponent.
199|If you use the attack action to make a single melee attack at your highest base attack bonus while using Power Attack and you hit an opponent, you can spend a swift action to attempt a trip combat maneuver against that opponent.
200|You receive a +2 bonus on checks made to trip a foe. This bonus stacks with the bonus granted by Improved Trip. Whenever you successfully trip an opponent, that opponent provokes attacks of opportunity.  Normal: Creatures do not provoke attacks of opportunity from being tripped.
201|You gain a bonus equal to half your tier on checks to trip, and to your CMD when an opponent tries to trip you. These bonuses stack with those granted by Improved Trip.  Furthermore, you can make an attack of opportunity against any creature that attempts to trip you, unless it also has this feat.
202|On a successful unarmed trip attack against a target your size or smaller, you may throw the target prone in any square you threaten rather than its own square. This movement does not provoke attacks of opportunity, and you cannot throw the creature into a space occupied by other creatures.  Special: A monk may gain Ki Throw as a bonus feat at 10th level. A monk with this feat can affect creatures larger than his own size by spending 1 ki point per size category difference.
203|After you successfully use the Ki Throw feat on an opponent, you can use a swift action to attempt a grapple combat maneuver against that opponent.  Normal: The grapple combat maneuver is a standard action.  Special: A monk can gain Binding Throw as a bonus feat starting at 14th level.
204|When using the Ki Throw feat, you may throw your target into any square you threaten that is occupied by another creature. Make a bull rush combat maneuver check with a –4 penalty against the secondary target. If this check succeeds, the thrown creature lands prone in the secondary target's square, while the secondary target is pushed back and knocked prone in an adjacent square. If the check fails, the thrown creature lands prone in the nearest square you threaten adjacent to the secondary target.  If you throw a Large or larger creature into an area containing multiple secondary targets, you take an additional penalty of –4 on your combat maneuver check for each target after the first.  Special: A monk may take this as a bonus feat at 14th level.
205|On a successful unarmed trip combat maneuver against an opponent your size or smaller, you can spend a swift action to attempt a bull rush combat maneuver against that opponent. If your bull rush succeeds, you can move that opponent to any unoccupied square you threaten, then push that opponent the number of 5-foot increments your successful bull rush allows. The target is then knocked prone. If the bull rush fails, you can use the Ki Throw feat as normal. If you also have the Improved Ki Throw feat, a successful bull rush allows you to push the opponent into a space secondary targets occupy. You resolve this effect as if you used the Improved Ki Throw feat to throw the opponent into that space.  Special: Per the Ki Throw feat, a monk can use ki to affect creatures larger than himself with this feat.
206|You treat quarterstaves as if they had the trip special feature.  Special: If you are a magus with the staff magus archetype, you can use spellstrike on any trip combat maneuver you make with the staff.
207|You add half your tier to CMD against trip maneuvers and on combat maneuver checks to trip with a quarterstaff. When you're wielding a quarterstaff and an opponent you threaten attempts to trip you and fails, it provokes an attack of opportunity from you. You must use your staff for this attack of opportunity.
208|As a full-round action, while wielding a quarterstaff two-handed, you can attempt a trip combat maneuver against each enemy adjacent to you.  Special: If you are a magus with the staff magus archetype, you can use spellstrike on any one trip combat maneuver you make with the staff.
209|Whenever you score a critical hit with a melee attack, you can trip your opponent, in addition to the normal damage dealt by the attack. If your confirmation roll exceeds your opponent's CMD, you may knock your opponent prone as if from the trip combat maneuver. This does not provoke an attack of opportunity. If you are tripped during your own trip attempt, you can drop your weapon to avoid being tripped.  Normal: You must perform a trip combat maneuver to trip an opponent.  Special: You can only apply the effects of one of the following feats to a given critical hit: Bull Rush Strike, Disarming Strike, Repositioning Strike, Sundering Strike, or Tripping Strike. You may choose to use this feat after you make your confirmation roll.
210|When you and your companion creature have this feat, your companion creature is adjacent to you or sharing your square, and you both threaten the same opponent, you are both considered to be flanking that opponent, regardless of your actual positioning.  Normal: You must be positioned opposite an ally to flank an opponent.
211|Attempt to knock a target off balance with a successful melee attack
212|When making a full attack, if you miss on your first attack, you can forgo making any other attacks for the rest of your turn to reroll that attack at your highest base attack bonus.
213|When you reroll a missed attack using the Second Chance feat, you can still make the rest of your attacks that turn, albeit at a –5 penalty to each attack.  Normal: When using the Second Chance feat, you must normally forgo the rest of your attacks that turn.
214|You can use Acrobatics instead of Bluff to feint in combat.
215|If you have sneak attack, when you attempt a combat maneuver check against a creature that you are flanking or that is denied its Dexterity bonus to AC against your attack, you gain a bonus on the combat maneuver check that's equal to the number of sneak attack dice you roll.  If you have the studied combat class feature, you can use studied strike on a combat maneuver check. When you do so, you gain a bonus on the combat maneuver check equal to your number of studied strike dice.
216|As a swift action, you can attempt the aid another action, granting your ally either a +1 bonus on his next attack roll or a +1 bonus to his AC.  Normal: Aid another is a standard action.
217|When you use the full-attack action, you can give up your regular attacks and instead make one melee attack at your highest base attack bonus against each opponent within reach. You must make a separate attack roll against each opponent.  When you use the Whirlwind Attack feat, you also forfeit any bonus or extra attacks granted by other feats, spells, or abilities.
218|Whenever you use Heal to provide first aid, treat caltrop wounds, or treat poison on an ally who also has this feat, you provoke no attacks of opportunity, and can take 10 on the check. Unlike with other teamwork feats, allies that are paralyzed, stunned, unconcious, or cannot otherwise act still count for the purposes of this feat.
219|You may make a number of additional attacks of opportunity per round equal to your Dexterity bonus. With this feat, you may also make attacks of opportunity while flat-footed.  Normal: A character without this feat can make only one attack of opportunity per round and can't make attacks of opportunity while flat-footed.  Special: The Combat Reflexes feat does not allow a rogue to use her opportunist ability more than once per round.
220|A creature that lacks a swim speed provokes an attack of opportunity from you when it attacks you underwater. You don't get an attack of opportunity if the attacker is under the effects of freedom of movement .
221|When an adjacent ally is attacked, you may use an attack of opportunity to attempt the aid another action to improve your ally's AC. You may not use the aid another action to improve your ally's attack roll with this attack.  Normal: Aid another is a standard action.
222|While using the aid another action to improve an adjacent ally's AC, you can intercept a successful attack against that ally as an immediate action, taking full damage from that attack and any associated effects (bleed, poison, etc.). A creature cannot benefit from this feat more than once per attack.
223|As a full-round action, you may set up a combat patrol, increasing your threatened area by 5 feet for every 5 points of your base attack bonus. Until the beginning of your next turn, you may make attacks of opportunity against any opponent in this threatened area that provokes attacks of opportunity. You may move as part of these attacks, provided your total movement before your next turn does not exceed your speed. Any movement you make provokes attacks of opportunity as normal.
224|You can make any number of additional attacks of opportunity per round. As a swift action, you can expend one use of mythic power to, until the start of your next turn, make attacks of opportunity against foes you've already made attacks of opportunity against this round if they provoke attacks of opportunity from you by moving.
225|Whenever an opponent you threaten takes a 5-foot step or uses the withdraw action, that opponent provokes an attack of opportunity from you. If the attack hits, you deal no damage, but the targeted creature is prevented from making the move action that granted a 5-foot step or the withdraw action and does not move.
226|As an immediate action, you can create a shifting haze of darkness around yourself, granting you concealment against one attack. The haze dissipates after the attack is resolved. You can use this ability once per day, plus one additional time per day when your caster level for your racial darkness spell-like ability reaches 5th, 10th, 15th, and 20th.
227|When a foe provokes an attack of opportunity due to moving through your adjacent squares, you can make a combat maneuver check as your attack of opportunity. If successful, the enemy cannot move for the rest of his turn. An enemy can still take the rest of his action, but cannot move. This feat also applies to any creature that attempts to move from a square that is adjacent to you if such movement provokes an attack of opportunity.
228|Whenever an opponent falls prone adjacent to you, that opponent provokes an attack of opportunity from you. This attack must be an unarmed strike.
229|You gain a stamina pool. After you make an attack roll with a manufactured weapon, unarmed strike, or natural weapon attack with which you are proficient, but before the results are revealed, you can spend up to 5 stamina points. If you do, you gain a competence bonus on the attack roll equal to the number of stamina points you spent. If you miss with the attack, the stamina points you spent are still lost.  Special: Since you have a stamina pool, you can spend your stamina points to use any combat tricks associated with combat feats you possess.
230|Your stamina pool increases by 3 points.  Special: You can select this feat up to three times. Each time you do, your stamina pool grows by 3 points.
231|You gain a secondary stamina pool with a number of stamina points equal to your Constitution modifier. You can spend these secondary stamina points only when you have 0 stamina points in your primary stamina pool or when you are fatigued, even though you normally can't spend stamina points while fatigued. You can spend these secondary stamina points as normal, but if the secondary pool drops to 0 points, you become exhausted until you have at least 1 stamina point in your primary pool. Even if you have points in your secondary pool, you are still fatigued as long as you have 0 points in your primary pool. Your secondary pool refreshes only after a full night's rest.
232|You receive a +5 competence bonus on Knowledge (local) checks and Charisma-based skill checks regarding other goblinoids. If you have the Leadership feat, treat your leadership score as 2 higher when taking followers or a cohort with the goblinoid subtype.
233|As a standard action, you can use one of your uses of channel negative energy to enslave undead within 30 feet. Undead receive a Will save to negate the effect. The DC for this Will save is equal to 10 + 1/2 your cleric level + your Charisma modifier. Undead that fail their saves fall under your control, obeying your commands to the best of their ability, as if under the effects of control undead. Intelligent undead receive a new saving throw each day to resist your command. You can control any number of undead, so long as their total Hit Dice do not exceed your cleric level. If you use channel energy in this way, it has no other effect (it does not heal or harm nearby creatures). If an undead creature is under the control of another creature, you must make an opposed Charisma check whenever your orders conflict.
234|When you command undead, the DC of the Will save increases by half your tier, and intelligent undead get no additional saves beyond their first to resist your commands. Any attempts by non-mythic creatures to control undead you command automatically fail, and you gain a +4 bonus on Charisma checks to prevent mythic creatures from stealing control of your undead.
235|You can apply the effects of two stare feats to your painful stares.  Normal: You can apply the effects of only one stare feat to a given painful stare.
236|With sonic damage comes a concussive wave of energy that rattles creatures affected by the spell. A concussive spell causes creatures that take damage from a spell that has the sonic descriptor to take a –2 penalty on attack rolls, saving throws, skill checks, and ability checks for a number of rounds equal to the actual spell level of the spell. A concussive spell only affects spells with the sonic descriptor. A concussive spell uses up a spell slot two levels higher than the spell's actual level.
237|You can assist another character in crafting mundane and magical items. You must both possess the relevant Craft skill or item creation feat, but either one of you can fulfill any other prerequisites for crafting the item. You provide a +2 circumstance bonus on any Craft or Spellcraft checks related to making an item, and your assistance doubles the gp value of items that can be crafted each day.
238|When an ally with this feat charges a creature that is no further away from you than your speed, you can, as an immediate action, charge that creature. You must be able to follow all of the normal charge rules.
239|Whenever you are adjacent to an ally who also has this feat, you receive a +2 competence bonus to your Combat Maneuver Defense. This bonus increases to +4 if the creature attempting the maneuver is larger than both you and your ally.
240|Whenever you are adjacent to an ally who also has this feat, you receive a +2 competence bonus on all combat maneuver checks. This bonus increases to +4 when attempting to break free from a grapple.
241|Whenever you and an ally who has this feat are both threatening the same creature, you must hit the target with at least one of your claw attacks to use your rend ability.  Normal: You must hit with two of your claw attacks to use your rend ability.
242|Your animal companion's type changes to undead, but its Hit Dice, base attack bonus, saving throws, skills, and tricks are retained from the base creature. The creature loses its Constitution score and its Charisma score becomes 12. If your companion is destroyed, your new companion is undead as well, using these same modifications.
243|You gain the stench special ability (DC 10 + 1/2 your HD + your Constitution modifier).
244|You can exhale a 30-foot cone of vile-smelling, moist air mixed with phlegm and remnants of old meals. Creatures in the area must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC = 10 + 1/2 your Hit Dice + your Constitution modifier) or they are nauseated for 1d6 minutes. Affected creatures that spend a full-round action gasping for fresh air and scraping off your oral debris may attempt another save to overcome the effect. You can use this breath weapon twice per day, plus one additional time per day for every 6 HD you possess beyond 6.
245|You can speak and read two additional languages of your choice. In addition, choose two Intelligence-, Wisdom-, or Charisma-based skills. Those skills always count as class skills for you.
246|If you have the fearless racial trait, your racial bonus on saving throws against fear effects increases to +4. If you have the craven racial trait, you still take the –2 penalty on fear saves, but you can gain the benefit of morale bonuses on saving throws against fear effects.
247|You can create magic weapons, armor, or shields. Enhancing a weapon, suit of armor, or shield takes 1 day for each 1,000 gp in the price of its magical features. To enhance a weapon, suit of armor, or shield, you must use up raw materials costing half of this total price. See the magic item creation rules in Magic Items for more information.  The weapon, armor, or shield to be enhanced must be a masterwork item that you provide. Its cost is not included in the above cost.  You can also mend a broken magic weapon, suit of armor, or shield if it is one that you could make. Doing so costs half the raw materials and half the time it would take to craft that item in the first place.
248|You can create any construct whose prerequisites you meet. The act of animating a construct takes one day for each 1,000 gp in its market price. To create a construct, you must use up raw materials costing half of its base price, plus the full cost of the basic body created for the construct. Each construct has a special section that summarizes its costs and other prerequisites. A newly created construct has average hit points for its Hit Dice.
249|When you craft a magic weapon, magic armor, or magic shield, you may add one casting of consecrate or desecrate as part of the item crafting process. This increases the item's price by 250 gp. The item becomes a reliquary and can be used as a holy (or unholy) symbol divine focus of your deity. If you cast consecrate or desecrate, your reliquary counts as a permanent fixture for that spell while it remains in the spell's area.
250|You can create magic rods. Crafting a rod takes 1 day for each 1,000 gp in its base price. To craft a rod, you must use up raw materials costing half of its base price. See the magic item creation rules in Magic Items for more information.
251|You can create any staff whose prerequisites you meet. Crafting a staff takes 1 day for each 1,000 gp in its base price. To craft a staff, you must use up raw materials costing half of its base price. A newly created staff has 10 charges. See the magic item creation rules in Magic Items for more information.
252|You can create a wand of any 4th-level or lower spell that you know. Crafting a wand takes 1 day for each 1,000 gp in its base price. To craft a wand, you must use up raw materials costing half of this base price. A newly created wand has 50 charges. See the magic item creation rules in Magic Items for more information.
253|You can create a wide variety of magic wondrous items. Crafting a wondrous item takes 1 day for each 1,000 gp in its price. To create a wondrous item, you must use up raw materials costing half of its base price. See the magic item creation rules in Magic Items for more information.  You can also mend a broken wondrous item if it is one that you could make. Doing so costs half the raw materials and half the time it would take to craft that item.
254|When you cast a conjuration (healing) spell, it cures 1 additional hit point if the recipient of the healing is grazed, wounded, or critical. The additional healing increases by an additional 1 point at caster level 6th, and every 6 caster levels thereafter.
255|You receive a +4 circumstance bonus on attack rolls made to confirm critical hits.
256|When you confirm a critical hit with a spell or spell-like ability, you may cast bestow curse or major curse on that target as an immediate action. This works even with ranged spells. You must have bestow curse or major curse prepared or otherwise available to cast, and using this ability casts the corresponding spell.
257|Whenever you score a critical hit with a slashing or piercing weapon, your opponent takes 2d6 points of bleed damage (see Conditions) each round on his turn, in addition to the damage dealt by the critical hit. Bleed damage can be stopped by a DC 15 Heal skill check or through any magical healing. The effects of this feat stack.  Special: You can only apply the effects of one critical feat to a given critical hit unless you possess Critical Mastery.
258|The bleed damage dealt with Bleeding Critical increases by your tier. Stopping this bleed damage requires a Heal check with a DC equal to 15 + 1/2 your tier. Any magical healing ends the bleed damage normally.  You can expend one use of mythic power to deal 1 Con bleed, in addition to the hit point bleed damage you deal with this feat. This effect increases by 1 for each additional use of mythic power you expend.
259|Whenever you confirm a critical hit with a touch spell, ranged touch spell, or spell-like ability against an opponent, the victim gains a random minor spellblight (see page 95).  Special: You can apply the effects of only one critical feat to a given critical hit unless you possess Critical Mastery.
260|Whenever you apply a spellblight by way of the Blighted Critical or Greater Blighted critical feat, you can choose the spellblight you apply rather than determining it randomly.
261|Whenever you confirm a critical hit with a touch spell, ranged touch spell, or spell-like ability against an opponent, the victim gains a random major spellblight.  Special: You can only apply the effects of one critical feat to a given critical hit unless you possess Critical Mastery.
262|Whenever you score a critical hit, your opponent is permanently blinded. A successful Fortitude save reduces this to dazzled for 1d4 rounds. The DC of this Fortitude save is equal to 10 + your base attack bonus. This feat has no effect on creatures that do not rely on eyes for sight or creatures with more than two eyes (although multiple critical hits might cause blindness, at the GM's discretion). Blindness can be cured by heal, regeneration, remove blindness, or similar abilities.  Special: You can only apply the effects of one critical feat to a given critical hit unless you possess Critical Mastery.
263|Whenever you score a critical hit against an opponent, its speed is halved for 1 minute. A successful Fortitude save reduces this duration to 1d4 rounds. The DC of this save is equal to 10 + your base attack bonus. Against creatures with multiple types of movement, you must choose which movement type to affect. A flying creature hit by this attack must make a DC 10 Fly check to remain airborne, and has its maneuverability reduced by one step.  Special: You can only apply the effects of one critical feat to a given critical hit unless you possess Critical Mastery.
264|You automatically confirm critical threats against non-mythic opponents. In addition, when you threaten a critical hit against a creature wearing armor with the fortification special ability or similar effect, that creature must roll twice and take the worse result when determining critical hit negation.
265|When you score a critical hit, you can apply the effects of two critical feats in addition to the damage dealt.  Normal: You can only apply the effects of one critical feat to a given critical hit in addition to the damage dealt.
266|When using Critical Mastery, increase the number of critical feats you may apply by every 3 tiers that you possess.
267|Whenever you score a critical hit against an opponent, the victim is permanently deafened. A successful Fortitude save reduces the deafness to 1 round. The DC of this Fortitude save is equal to 10 + your base attack bonus. This feat has no effect on deaf creatures. This deafness can be cured by heal, regeneration, remove deafness, or a similar ability.  Special: You can only apply the effects of one critical feat to a given critical hit unless you possess Critical Mastery.
268|Whenever you score a critical hit with the selected piercing melee weapon, you can impale your opponent on your weapon. While your opponent is impaled in this way, each time he starts his turn, you deal damage equal to your weapon's damage dice plus the extra damage dice from your weapon's properties. As an immediate action, you can pull your weapon out of your opponent. If your opponent is ever outside your reach, you must spend a free action to let go of your weapon or pull it out of him. Your opponent can also spend a move action to pull your weapon out. When the weapon comes out, your opponent takes damage as if starting his turn impaled. While you impale your opponent with your weapon, you cannot use it to attack, and you must hold on to it.
269|While you are using Impaling Critical to impale an opponent, and you are still holding onto that weapon, that opponent must succeed at a grapple combat maneuver check against you to pull your weapon out. If you have let go of your weapon, the impaled opponent must spend a standard action to remove the weapon. Until the opponent pulls the weapon out, his speed in all modes is halved and his maneuverability, if any, is reduced by one step. When the weapon comes out, instead of dealing the damage normal for Impaling Critical, you can deal bleed damage equal to your weapon's damage dice result once per round at the start of that opponent's turn.
270|Whenever you score a critical hit, your opponent becomes sickened for 1 minute. The effects of this feat do not stack. Additional hits instead add to the effect's duration.  Special: You can only apply the effects of one critical feat to a given critical hit unless you possess Critical Mastery.
271|Whenever you successfully sneak attack an opponent for a second time on your turn, you can spend a swift action to apply the effects of one critical feat you know to that opponent.
272|Whenever you score a critical hit, your opponent becomes staggered for 1d4+1 rounds. A successful Fortitude save reduces the duration to 1 round. The DC of this Fortitude save is equal to 10 + your base attack bonus. The effects of this feat do not stack. Additional hits instead add to the duration.  Special: You can only apply the effects of one critical feat to a given critical hit unless you possess Critical Mastery.
273|Whenever you score a critical hit, your opponent becomes stunned for 1d4 rounds. A successful Fortitude save reduces this to staggered for 1d4 rounds. The DC of this Fortitude save is equal to 10 + your base attack bonus. The effects of this feat do not stack. Additional hits instead add to the duration.  Special: You can only apply the effects of one critical feat to a given critical hit unless you possess Critical Mastery.
274|Whenever you score a critical hit, your opponent becomes fatigued. This feat has no additional effect on a fatigued or exhausted creature.  Special: You can only apply the effects of one critical feat to a given critical hit unless you possess Critical Mastery.
275|When you score a critical hit on a foe, your target immediately becomes exhausted. This feat has no effect on exhausted creatures.  Special: You can only apply the effects of one critical feat to a given critical hit unless you possess the Critical Mastery feat.
276|Once per day, you can spend 1 hour practicing maneuvers to gain one single critical feat that you meet the prerequisites for. You gain the benefits of the chosen critical feat until you choose to practice a different critical feat.
277|You gain a +2 bonus on Charisma-based checks involving evil-aligned outsiders and +1 bonus to the DC of spells and spell-like abilities you use against such creatures. You take a —2 penalty on Charisma-based checks involving good-aligned outsiders.  Goal: Successfully trade your soul to an evil outsider.  Completion
278|You gain a tail swipe attack. If used as part of a full-attack action, the attack is made at your full base attack bonus – 5. If the tail swipe hits, it deals 1d4 points of damage (assuming you are Medium) + 1/2 your Strength modifier. If you confirm a critical hit against a target with your tail swipe, as a free action you can attempt a trip combat maneuver against that target.
279|You can deliver a coup de grace to cowering or stunned targets.  Normal: You can only coup de grace helpless targets.
280|You can deliver a coup de grace to dazed and staggered non-mythic opponents. In addition, when any creature makes a Fortitude saving throw to survive one of your coup de grace attempts, it takes a penalty to that saving throw equal to your tier.
281|As a standard action that does not provoke attacks of opportunity, you can attempt a coup de grace against a cowering, helpless, or stunned opponent that you have designated as your studied target.
282|You can modify a spell to daze a creature damaged by the spell. When a creature takes damage from this spell, they become dazed for a number of rounds equal to the original level of the spell. If the spell allows a saving throw, a successful save negates the daze effect. If the spell does not allow a save, the target can make a Will save to negate the daze effect. If the spell effect also causes the creature to become dazed, the duration of this metamagic effect is added to the duration of the spell. A dazing spell uses up a spell slot three levels higher than the spell's actual level. Spells that do not inflict damage do not benefit from this feat.
283|You can choose to take a –1 penalty on all ranged attack rolls to gain a +2 bonus on all ranged damage rolls. When your base attack bonus reaches +4, and every +4 thereafter, the penalty increases by –1 and the bonus to damage increases by +2. You must choose to use this feat before making an attack roll and its effects last until your next turn. The bonus damage does not apply to touch attacks or effects that do not deal hit point damage.
284|When you use Deadly Aim, you gain a +3 bonus on ranged damage rolls instead of +2. When your base attack bonus reaches +4, and every +4 thereafter, the bonus on ranged damage rolls increases by +3 rather than +2.
285|Foes you knock out must make a Fort save or die
286|You may reduce your bomb damage by one die to give it the ability to deafen the creature struck by it. The bomb must deal fire, force, or sonic damage. If a creature takes a direct hit from your bomb, it must make a saving throw against the bomb's DC or be deafened for 1 minute. This deafening is in addition to any other effects the bomb would normally have.
287|Whenever you charge an opponent from higher ground, or from above while flying, you gain a +5 bonus on attack rolls in place of the bonuses from charging and being on higher ground.
288|Whenever you charge an opponent from higher ground, or from above while flying, the critical multiplier of your weapon increases by 2 (to a maximum of ×6). This doesn't stack with other abilities that increase a weapon's critical multiplier. If your charge attack hits, you can perform a trip combat maneuver against the attack's target as a free action without provoking attacks of opportunity.
289|You get a +2 bonus on all Bluff and Disguise skill checks. If you have 10 or more ranks in one of these skills, the bonus increases to +4 for that skill.
290|The bonus on Bluff and Disguise skill checks from Deceitful increases by 2. In addition, you can expend one use of mythic power to treat a Bluff or Disguise check as if you had rolled a natural 20. You must decide to use this ability before making the roll.
291|When you gain temporary ki from drunken ki, you gain 2 temporary ki rather than just 1.
292|Your darkvision has a range of 120 feet.  Normal: Darkvision normally extends 60 or 90 feet.
293|The range of your darkvision increases by 10 feet per tier.
294|Whenever you are adjacent to your eidolon, you can choose for the eidolon to take a –1 penalty on melee attack rolls and combat maneuver checks to gain a +1 dodge bonus to your Armor Class. When your eidolon's base attack bonus reaches +5, and for every +5 thereafter, the penalty increases by –1 and the dodge bonus increases by +1. You must choose to use this feat when your eidolon is making an attack or full-attack action with melee or natural weapons, and its effect lasts until your eidolon's next turn, or until you are no longer adjacent to the eidolon, whichever occurs first.
295|You treat your total Hit Dice as your base attack bonus when calculating your Combat Maneuver Defense (see Combat).
296|Add half your tier to your CMD.
297|Choose a weapon group from the fighter's weapon training class ability list (except natural weapons). You gain a +2 dodge bonus on AC when an opponent attacks you using a weapon from that group. If you also have the weapon training class feature in the selected group, your dodge bonus from this feat increases to +3.  Special: You can select this feat more than once. Its effects do not stack. Each time you select this feat, it applies to a different weapon group.
298|Once per day, after you roll a natural 1 on a saving throw or a critical hit is confirmed against you, you can either reroll that saving throw, or force the creature that confirmed the critical hit against you to reroll the critical confirmation roll. This does not stack with other effects that allow you to reroll a saving throw or an attack roll. You may only make one reroll.  Special: If you are using the optional hero point system, you can also spend 1 hero point when a critical hit is confirmed against you to have the opponent reroll the critical hit confirmation roll.
299|Once per day, as a free action before a roll is made, you gain a +8 bonus on any single d20 roll. You can also use this ability after the roll is made, but if you do, this bonus is reduced to +4.
300|You gain an extra use per day of your Defiant Luck ability. You can also use your Inexplicable Luck ability to grant an ally that can see and hear its benefit as an immediate action.
301|You get a +2 bonus on Disable Device and Sleight of Hand skill checks. If you have 10 or more ranks in one of these skills, the bonus increases to +4 for that skill.
302|The bonus on Disable Device and Sleight of Hand skill checks from Deft Hands increases by 2. In addition, you can expend one use of mythic power to treat a Disable Device or Sleight of Hand check as if you had rolled a natural 20. You must decide to use this ability before making the roll.
303|When you use a kinetic blast, you can specify a number of rounds between 1 and 5. When that number of rounds has passed, the kinetic blast takes effect at the beginning of your turn. In the interim, you can take a standard action that provokes attacks of opportunity to cause the blast to take effect earlier than you initially selected. If you delay another blast while you already have a delayed blast pending, the previous delayed blast dissipates harmlessly.  You must make any decisions you would make about the delayed blast—including designating target positions, choosing infusions, and determining or shaping the area—when you first use the blast. The blast originates from your position at the time you used the blast, not your current position when the blast takes effect, and it targets the position or area you had specified (which may or may not include any targets). A delayed blast radiates an aura of magic appropriate for its spell level even while it is delayed, and during that time, it can be dispelled by dispel magic.
304|To use this feat, you must use a whip (or another weapon in the flails fighter weapon group) to attack a foe demoralized by an Intimidate check. If the attack hits, you extend the duration the creature is shaken by 1 round. This feat has no effect on creatures whose shaken conditions are from sources other than Intimidate checks.
305|As a standard action, you spur an ally, who must have fewer Hit Dice than yourself, to reckless effort. For 1 minute, the ally gains a +1 morale bonus on attack rolls, weapon damage rolls, and Will saves against mind-affecting effects. However, the ally also takes a –2 penalty to AC and on skill checks. To affect an unwilling ally, you must succeed at an Intimidate check with the same DC used to demoralize your ally.  Special: If you have 10 or more ranks in Intimidate, the morale bonus increases to +2.
306|When you use Dazzling Display, you can use it to spur allies as if you had the Taskmaster feat
307|When you trigger your painful stare, the target must succeed at a Will Save (DC = 10 + 1/2 your mesmerist level + your Charisma modifier) or become shaken for 1 round. This can't cause the target to become frightened, even if the target is already shaken.
308|You gain a +2 bonus on Heal checks. If you have 10 or more ranks in Heal, this bonus increases to +4. You can apply first aid as a move action and don't take a penalty when treating deadly wounds without a healing kit.  Goal: Bring an ally back from the dead, including by using breath of life or reincarnate.  Completion
309|When you are raging and you succeed at a sunder combat maneuver, you regain 1 round of rage. If the sunder attempt causes the object to gain the broken condition, you heal 1 hit point. You can only gain these benefits once per round.
310|When you successfully make a targeted dispel check against an opponent, that opponent must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC equals the DC of the spell used to dispel) or be stunned until the start of your next turn. If the save succeeds, the opponent is instead sickened until the start of your next turn.
311|When you use any of the spells listed in this feat's prerequisites to detect a creature's alignment or its magic, you have a chance of detecting what spellcasting expertise it has. After you observe a creature with the detect spell for 3 rounds, it must make a Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 your caster level + your Intelligence modifier). If it fails the saving throw, you learn what bloodlines, domains, hexes, schools, or mysteries (if any) the creature possesses. If the creature makes its save, it is immune to the effects of this feat for 24 hours.
312|You gain the benefit of Detect Expertise immediately (without needing to observe a creature for 3 rounds) when using the divinations listed in Detect Expertise. Non-mythic creatures cannot attempt a Will save to resist this effect.
313|If your tumor familiar is attached, and you would be reduced to 0 or fewer hit points by damage in combat (from a weapon or other blow, not a spell or special ability), the familiar throws itself in the way of the attack as an immediate action. If it makes a Reflex saving throw (DC = damage dealt), it takes all the damage from the attack; if it fails, it takes half damage and you take half damage.  The familiar must be aware of the attack and able to react to it in order to use this ability, and it can only do this once per day—if it is denied its Dexterity bonus to AC, it can't use this ability. Since this effect would not normally allow the familiar to make a Reflex save for half damage, its improved evasion ability does not apply on this saving throw.
314|After using abundant step or casting dimension door, you can take any actions you still have remaining on your turn. You also gain a +4 bonus on Concentration checks when casting teleportation spells.
315|As a full-round action, you use abundant step or cast dimension door as a special charge. Doing so allows you to teleport up to double your current speed (up to the maximum distance allowed by the spell or ability) and to make the attack normally allowed on a charge.
316|You can take a full-attack action, activating abundant step or casting dimension door as a swift action. If your do, you can teleport up to twice your speed (up to the maximum distance allowed by the spell or ability), dividing this teleportation into increments you use before your first attack, between each attack, and after your last attack. You must teleport at least 5 feet each time you teleport.  Special: A monk can use additional points from his ki pool to increase his speed before determining the total speed for this teleportation.
317|While using the Dimensional Dervish feat, you gain a +4 bonus on combat maneuver checks to bull rush, disarm, reposition, or trip an opponent.
318|While using the Dimensional Dervish feat, you provide flanking from all squares you attack from. Flanking starts from the moment you make an attack until the start of your next turn. You can effectively flank with yourself and with multiple allies when using this feat.
319|You can use Disable Device to suppress the magic of a non-artifact magic item for 1d4 rounds, after which the item recovers its magical properties. A suppressed item becomes nonmagical for the duration of the suppression. Using Disable Device in this way takes 2d4 rounds, with a DC of 15 + the item's caster level.
320|When an ally with this feat fails a disarm combat maneuver check made on his turn against an opponent within your melee reach, as an immediate action you can attempt a disarm combat maneuver check against that foe.
321|When an ally with this feat fails a disarm combat maneuver check made on his turn against a foe that's within your melee reach, you can make an attack of opportunity against that foe. If that attack of opportunity hits the foe, you can also attempt a disarm combat maneuver check against that opponent as part of that attack of opportunity.
322|You receive a +2 racial bonus on saving throws against illusion spells and effects and a +2 bonus on Linguistic checks to detect forgeries. You can use the Linguistic skill to detect forgeries untrained.
323|You gain a +1 bonus on caster level checks and concentration checks when casting spells from your psychic discipline, and you gain a +1 insight bonus on saving throws against spells from your discipline.
324|Whenever you are using bardic performance to create a spell-like or supernatural effect, allies within 30 feet of you deal an extra 1d6 points of sonic damage with successful weapon attacks. This damage stacks with other energy damage a weapon might deal. Projectile weapons bestow this extra damage on their ammunition, but the extra damage is dealt only if the projectile hits a target within 30 feet of you.
325|If you successfully dispel an ongoing magical effect on an opponent, that opponent takes a –2 penalty on saving throws against your spells until the end of your next turn.
326|Whenever you use a melee or thrown weapon with the fragile weapon special quality to score a critical threat against an opponent, you can give your weapon the broken condition to automatically confirm the critical hit.
327|The DC to cast spells defensively increases by +4 for all enemies that are within your threatened area. This increase to casting spells defensively only applies if you are aware of the enemy's location and are capable of taking an attack of opportunity. If you can only take one attack of opportunity per round and have already used that attack, this increase does not apply.
328|The DC to cast spells defensively within your threatened area increases by half your tier. This stacks with the increase granted by Disruptive. In addition, even if you can't make attacks of opportunity, non-mythic spellcasters are still wary of you and continue to suffer from the effects of Disruptive.
329|Enemies in your threatened area that fail their checks to cast spells defensively provoke attacks of opportunity from you.  Normal: Enemies that fail to cast spells defensively do not provoke attacks of opportunity.
330|As a standard action, you can attempt to sunder an ongoing spell effect as if you had the spell sunder rage power (Ultimate Combat 28). You may use this feat once per day, plus one additional time per day for every 5 points by which your base attack bonus exceeds +10.
331|Any non-mythic creature you threaten provokes an attack of opportunity from you whenever it uses a spell or spell-like ability, even when casting defensively or casting a quickened spell.  If a non-mythic creature within 30 feet of you uses a spell or spell-like ability, you can expend one use of mythic power to make a ranged attack against that creature as an attack of opportunity (even if the creature wouldn't normally provoke attacks of opportunity). You must have a ranged weapon in hand or have a free hand and the non-mythic Quick Draw feat to use this ability. You can use this ability against a mythic creature by expending two uses of mythic power.
332|Any creature using a teleportation effect to enter or leave a square threatened by you provokes an attack of opportunity, even if casting defensively or using a supernatural ability.
333|When you use a melee attack to successfully disrupt an arcane spellcaster's spell, you can immediately use your spell recall class feature to regain a magus spell you have already cast. This ability functions as if you had expended a number of points from your arcane pool equal to the level of the spell you disrupted, up to the maximum level spell you can cast.
334|Targets affected by a disruptive spell must make concentration checks when using spells or spell-like abilities (DC equals the save DC of the disruptive spell plus the level of the spell being cast) for 1 round. Targets that avoid the spell's effects avoid this feat's effect as well. A disruptive spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell's actual level.
335|With a thrown weapon, you reduce your penalty on ranged attack rolls due to range by 2.
336|Thrown weapons wielded by you have twice their normal range.
337|The distance from you at which your phantom can deliver touch spells increases by 20 feet.
338|When your ally with this feat uses the charge action and hits, you gain a +2 bonus on your next attack roll against the target of that charge. This bonus must be used before your ally's next turn, or it is lost.
339|As an immediate action, when an enemy within 30 feet hits an ally with an attack, you can sacrifice a prepared divine spell or (if you are a spontaneous caster) an unused spell slot and make the enemy reroll the attack roll. The second attack roll takes a penalty equal to the level of the spell you sacrifice. You must sacrifice a spell of 1st-level or higher to use this ability. Whether or not the second attack is successful, you cannot use this effect on the same creature again for 1 day.
340|When you use Divine Interference, the penalty on your opponent's attack roll is equal to twice the level of the spell sacrificed. You can expend one use of mythic power when you sacrifice the spell to increase the penalty to triple the level of the spell sacrificed.
341|Once per day as an immediate action before rolling a saving throw, you can add your Charisma modifier on that saving throw. As usual, this does not stack if you already apply your Charisma modifier to that saving throw. If you possess the charmed life class feature, you can instead apply Divine Protection's bonus after rolling the saving throw but before the result is revealed.
342|You gain a +1 dodge bonus to your AC. A condition that makes you lose your Dex bonus to AC also makes you lose the benefits of this feat.
343|If you successfully use Acrobatics to tumble through an opponent's space, you gain a +2 circumstance bonus on attack rolls against that opponent until the start of your next turn. If you choose to make a trip attempt against that opponent, you gain a +4 circumstance bonus on your combat maneuver check. This bonus on trip also lasts until the start of your next turn.
344|The bonus to AC from Dodge increases by 1. As an immediate action, you can expend one use of mythic power to grant yourself an additional +10 dodge bonus to AC against one attack.
345|As a move action, you can wrap a cape that you're wearing around your arm (removing it if necessary), and treat it as a buckler. If you are using the cape in this way, and an opponent misses you with a melee attack, as an immediate action you can spend 1 panache point to release your cape from your arm and entangle your foe with it. The foe can free itself by using a full-round action to escape or by destroying the cape; a typical cape has hardness 1 and 3 hit points. You can use this feat with items similar in shape and weight to a cape, such as a cloak or a curtain.
346|You get a +4 dodge bonus to Armor Class against attacks of opportunity caused when you move out of or within a threatened area. A condition that makes you lose your Dexterity bonus to Armor Class (if any) also makes you lose dodge bonuses.  Dodge bonuses stack with each other, unlike most types of bonuses.
347|You automatically know whether a creature you can see has a dodge bonus to its AC. You gain up to a +2 bonus on attack rolls against a target that has a dodge bonus. This bonus cannot exceed the dodge bonus of the creature you attack.
348|Opponents with the Mobility feat do not gain the dodge bonus granted by that feat when they provoke attacks of opportunity by moving out of or within your threatened area.
349|When you use Acrobatics to move through an opponent's threatened area or space without provoking an attack of opportunity from that opponent, you gain a +2 circumstance bonus on your next melee attack roll against that opponent and that opponent is denied its Dexterity bonus to AC, as long as you make that attack before the start of your next turn.
350|When you use Acrobatics to move through an opponent's threatened area or space without provoking an attack of opportunity from that opponent and then hit that foe with a melee attack in the same round, as a free action you can spend 1 panache point to deny that foe its Dexterity bonus to its Armor Class until the end of your next turn.
351|As long as you have at least 1 grit point, you do not provoke attacks of opportunity when shooting or reloading a firearm.
352|If you have at least one ki in your ki pool, when you move you do not provoke attacks of opportunity when leaving the first square of that movement. You can spend 1 ki point to avoid provoking attacks of opportunity during that entire move.
353|If you are tripped, you can spend an immediate action to move 5 feet without provoking an attack of opportunity. This does not count as taking a 5-foot step. You fall prone after this movement.
354|You gain a +2 bonus on Acrobatics checks made to jump. As a full-round action, you can move up to your speed and make firearm attacks at your highest base attack bonus with each loaded firearm you are wielding. You can make these attacks at any point during your movement, and if you are wielding two firearms, you can make the attacks at different points during the movement. At the end of this movement, you fall prone. This deed costs 1 grit point to perform.
355|Whenever you use Mobility, you gain a +6 dodge bonus to AC instead of the normal +4. In addition, once per round when an attack of opportunity provoked by your movement misses you, you may move 5 feet as a free action. This movement doesn't count against your total overall movement for the round, but it does provoke attacks of opportunity.
356|Whenever an opponent misses you with a melee attack, you may move 5 feet as an immediate action so long as you remain within that opponent's threatened area. This movement does not provoke attacks of opportunity. If you take this step, you cannot take a 5-foot step during your next turn. If you take an action to move during your next turn, subtract 5 feet from your total movement.
357|After sidestepping an opponent's missed attack using the Sidestep feat, you may still take a 5-foot step during your next turn, or you may move up to your full speed if you take an action to move during your next turn.  Normal: If you use the Sidestep feat, you cannot take a 5-foot step during your next turn.
358|As a full-round action, you can move up to your speed and make a single melee attack without provoking any attacks of opportunity from the target of your attack. You can move both before and after the attack, but you must move at least 10 feet before the attack and the total distance that you move cannot be greater than your speed. You cannot use this ability to attack a foe that is adjacent to you at the start of your turn.  Normal: You cannot move before and after an attack.
359|When you use Spring Attack, you don't need to move at least 10 feet before making the first attack. If you expend one use of mythic power when you start a Spring Attack, the movement you make during the Spring Attack doesn't provoke attacks of opportunity.
360|You receive a +4 dodge bonus on Acrobatics checks to move past opponents without provoking attacks of opportunity, so long as they are larger than you. In addition, you gain a +2 dodge bonus to Armor Class against attacks of opportunity caused when you move out of or within a larger opponent's threatened area (this stacks with the +4 bonus provided by Mobility, for a total bonus of +6).
361|When you successfully make an Acrobatics check to avoid provoking an attack of opportunity from a larger opponent when you move through its threatened area or its space, you can make that opponent lose its balance until the end of its next turn as a free action. While that creature's balance is lost, if it attempts to move, it must make a successful DC 15 Acrobatics check or fall prone, wasting the move action. You can only affect one creature with this effect each round.
362|When you spend a swift action to make a performance combat check after scoring a critical hit or performing a combat maneuver, and you are adjacent to the target of the critical hit or combat maneuver, you can move to any other space that is adjacent to the target without provoking attacks of opportunity. You must have a clear path to that space and the ability to reach it by spending a move action. If you end this move in any space other than the one where you started, you gain a +2 bonus on the performance combat check.
363|If you move more than 5 feet this turn, you gain 20% concealment for 1 round against ranged attacks.
364|If you take two actions to move or a withdraw action in a turn, you gain 50% concealment for 1 round.
365|When fighting dragons, your aura of courage expands to a 20-foot-radius emanation, and allies in the aura gain a morale bonus on saving throws against dragon breath equal to your aura of courage's bonus against fear effects.  Normal: The aura of courage is a 10-foot-radius emanation, and grants a +4 morale bonus on fear effects.
366|You never take penalties for consuming nonmagical alcohol, and you can consume an alcoholic beverage as a swift action instead of a move action. Each time you consume an alcoholic beverage, you may gain one of the benefits of polypurpose panacea (Pathfinder RPG Ultimate Magic 232). You can have only one of these benefits active at a time. If you expend one use of mythic power while drinking an alcoholic beverage, you can heal 2 points of ability damage, negate a temporary penalty to one ability score, or remove one of the following conditions: confused, diseased, exhausted, fatigued, frightened, nauseated, poisoned, shaken, sickened, or staggered.
367|Select a mythic path other than the path you selected at your moment of ascension. You gain that path's 1st-tier ability (either archmage arcana, champion's strike, divine surge, guardian's call, marshal's order, or trickster attack). Each time you gain a path ability, you can select that path ability from either path's list or the list of universal path abilities.
368|Whenever you are adjacent to an ally who also has this feat, and both of you are required to make a Reflex saving throw against a spell or effect, you may take the result of your die roll or that of your ally (your modifiers still apply to the roll, regardless of which result you take). If you take your ally's result, you are knocked prone (or staggered on your next turn, if you are already prone or cannot be knocked prone). In addition, you receive a +2 cover bonus to your AC against ranged attacks as long as your ally is wielding a shield.
369|Whenever you use Duck and Cover, your ally has evasion or improved evasion, and your ally succeeds at its saving throw, half of the damage you would have taken is transferred to your ally. (This damage is not reduced by the ally's evasion or improved evasion.)
370|Your scales take on the color and some of the resistances of one of the chromatic dragons. Choose one of the following chromatic dragon types: black (acid), blue (electricity), green (acid), red (fire), or white (cold). Your scales take on the color of that dragon, and you gain resistance 5 to the dragon color's corresponding energy type.  Special: If you have the dragon-scaled racial trait, your scale color does not change and you gain a +1 natural armor bonus instead.
371|You gain a +2 bonus against sleep and paralysis effects. You gain a breath weapon that is determined by your scale coloration by either the Draconic Aspect feat or the dragon-scaled racial trait. Using a breath weapon is a standard action that does not provoke attacks of opportunity. You can use your breath weapon once per day. Creatures within the area of your breath weapon who succeed at a Reflex saving throw (DC 10 + your character level + your Constitution modifier) take only half damage.  Black (Su): You breathe a 30-foot line of acid that deals 2d6 points of acid damage. Blue (Su): You breathe a 30-foot line of electricity that deals 2d6 points of electricity damage.  Green (Su): You breathe a 15-foot cone of acid that deals 2d6 points of acid damage.  Red (Su): You breathe a 15-foot cone of fire that deals 2d6 points of fire damage.  White (Su): You breathe a 15-foot cone of cold that deals 2d6 points of cold damage.  Special: Kobold sorcerers with either the Draconic or Kobold bloodline can use their Charisma modifier instead of their Constitution to determine the DC of this breath weapon.
372|You gain a +2 bonus against sleep and paralysis effects. You grow a pair of wings that you can use to fall and glide at a safe pace. You can make a DC 15 Fly check to fall safely from any height without taking falling damage, as if using feather fall. When falling safely, you may make an additional DC 15 Fly check to glide, moving 5 feet laterally for every 20 feet you fall.  Special: If you have the gliding wings racial trait, you donât need to make a Fly check to glide, and you can move 10 feet laterally for every 20 feet you fall.
373|You gain an additional +2 bonus against sleep and paralysis effects. You can use your breath weapon twice per day and your breath weapon damage increases to 4d6 points of energy damage. Your wings from the Draconic Glide feat grow stronger, granting you a fly speed of 20 feet (average maneuverability).
374|You gain a group of spell-like abilities based on the color of your dragon aspect. Each spell-like ability can be used once per day, and the DC of any of these spell-like abilities is 10 + 1/2 your Hit Dice + Charisma modifier.  Black : Corrosive touch , †, darkness .  Blue : Minor image, shocking grasp †.  Green : Entangle †, gust of wind .  Red : Burning hands †, pyrotechnics .  White : Burning hands † (deals cold damage instead of fire), fog cloud .  Special: You can use this feat instead of Draconic Breath or Draconic Glide to qualify for the Draconic Paragon feat. If you have this feat and Draconic Paragon, you can use the spell-like ability marked with a dagger (†) twice per day.
375|You may use detect magic as a spell-like ability at will, and add feather fall and levitate to the spell-like abilities that you may use once each per day. Your caster level is equal to your character level.
376|You may use your dancing lights, faerie fire, feather fall, and levitate spell-like abilities twice per day. Your darkness spell-like ability instead becomes deeper darkness, which you may use twice per day.
377|Your detect magic spell-like ability is now constant. You may use your dancing lights, deeper darkness, faerie fire, feather fall, and levitate spell-like abilities at will.
378|Your spell resistance is equal to 11 + your character level.  Special: You receive a +1 circumstance bonus on Diplomacy and Intimidate checks made against any drow.
379|Select one of the following: dispel magic, divine favor, or suggestion. You may use this spell once per day as a spell-like ability. Your caster level is equal to your character level.
380|You may use dispel magic, divine favor, and suggestion once per day as spell-like abilities. Your caster level is equal to your character level.
381|Your dwarven heritage manifests in two ways. First, your speed is never modified by armor or encumbrance, as the dwarf slow and steady racial trait. Second, you gain the stonecunning dwarf racial trait.
382|You ignore up to –5 in penalties due to distance on visual Perception checks, allowing you to see accurately at much greater distances than most.
383|You ignore up to –10 in penalties due to distance on visual Perception checks, instead of the normal –5. As a swift action, you can expend one use of mythic power to ignore all penalties due to distance on visual Perception checks for 1 round.
384|You gain a +4 racial bonus on Perception checks underground, and on Survival checks to avoid becoming lost in caverns and rocky areas.
385|You gain a limited form of tremorsense. As a move action, you become aware of all creatures within 15 feet that are in contact with the ground at that moment.
386|When you cast an echoing spell, it does not disappear entirely from memory, and you can cast it one additional time during that day. No effect that allows you to reprepare or recast a spell can affect the echoed spell. If you prepare spells, this second casting does not require you to prepare it in another spell slot. If you spontaneously cast spells, this second casting does not expend another available spell slot. An echoing spell uses up a spell slot three levels higher than the spell's actual level.
387|Choose an additional favored class and gain either +1 hit point or +1 skill point whenever you take a level in that class. If you choose a class in which you already have levels, the benefits of this feat are retroactive.
388|An ectoplasmic spell has full effect against incorporeal or ethereal creatures. An ectoplasmic spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell's actual level.
389|Twice per day when you shift mental focus from one implement to another, you can add the same number of points to the latter implement that you removed from the former.  Normal: By removing points of mental focus from one implement, you can add the same amount – 1 to another.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Its effects stack.
390|You natural weapons are considered both magic and silver for purpose of overcoming damage reduction.
391|When casting a spell you've created, add 1 to your caster level. In addition, you gain a +2 bonus on Spellcraft checks. If you have 10 or more ranks in Spellcraft, this bonus increases to +4.  Goal: Create a new spell of at least 6th level.  Completion
392|Instead of its normal effect, you can choose to have your ability to channel energy heal or harm outsiders of your chosen elemental subtype. You must make this choice each time you channel energy. If you choose to heal or harm creatures of your elemental subtype, your channel energy has no effect on other creatures. The amount of damage healed or dealt and the DC to halve the damage is otherwise unchanged.  Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take this feat, it applies to a new elemental subtype.
393|Your Elemental Channel can affect any elemental subtype, not just the one you chose when you took Elemental Channel. Each time you use Elemental Channel, you must pick one elemental subtype before using the feat. You can expend one use of mythic power when you use Elemental Channel to choose a second elemental subtype to affect.
394|Choose one energy type (acid, cold, electricity, or fire). Add +1 to the Difficulty Class for all saving throws against spells that deal damage of the energy type you select.  Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take this feat, it applies to a new energy type.
395|Choose an energy type in which you already have Elemental Focus. The increase to save DC provided by Elemental Focus and Greater Elemental Focus for spells of the selected energy type is 1 higher. When casting a spell with this energy type's descriptor, you can expend one use of mythic power as part of the casting to force the spell's targets to roll their saving throws twice, taking the lower result.
396|Add +1 to the Difficulty Class for all saving throws against spells that deal damage of the energy type you select. This bonus stacks with the bonus from Elemental Focus.  Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take this feat, it applies to a new energy type to which you have already applied the Elemental Focus feat.
397|Once per day, you can cast plane shift as a spell-like ability with a caster level equal to your level to transport yourself and willing targets to an elemental plane that is appropriate to your race (ifrits to the Plane of Fire, oreads to the Plane of Earth, sylphs to the Plane of Air, and undines to the Plane of Water). While on that plane, you (but not anyone transported with you) are treated as though under the effect of the spell planar adaptation.
398|Choose one energy type: acid, cold, electricity, or fire. You may replace a spell's normal damage with that energy type or split the spell's damage, so that half is of that energy type and half is of its normal type. An elemental spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell's actual level.  Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Each time you must choose a different energy type.
399|Your cranium has been tightly bound with boards and wrappings to change its shape and attune your mind to your psychic discipline. If you take this feat after 1st level, you must undergo a painful 6-month regimen of increased tightening and head binding, during which you take a –1 penalty on Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma checks and on Intelligence-, Wisdom-, and Charisma-based skill checks. Once the binding is completed, your skull takes on one of three shapes of your choosing, each with a specific benefit. Once chosen, this shape cannot be changed.  Fronto-Occipital Elongation: Your head slopes severely in a high conical shape, tapering from your brow to the crown of your head. You take a –1 penalty on Intelligence and Wisdom checks and on Intelligence- and Wisdom-based skill checks, but gain a +2 bonus on Charisma checks and Charisma-based skill checks. In addition, once per day, you can extend the duration of a psychic spell you cast by 50% (minimum 0 additional rounds). The increased duration doesn't stack with the increase granted by the Extend Spell feat.  Ovoid Compression: Your head takes on a larger, more bulbous appearance than normal. You take a –1 penalty on Charisma and Wisdom checks and on Wisdom- and Charisma-based skill checks, but gain a +2 bonus on Intelligence checks and Intelligence-based skill checks. In addition, once per day you can cast one psychic magic spell you know with a +1 bonus to its caster level.  Sagittal Elongation: Your head slopes back in a gentle, elongated curve. You take a –1 penalty on Intelligence and Charisma checks and on Intelligence- and Charisma-based skill checks, but gain a +2 bonus on Wisdom checks and Wisdom-based skill checks. In addition, once per day, you can increase the DC of a psychic spell you cast by 1.
400|If you miss due to concealment when making a ranged attack with a longbow or shortbow (including composite bows), you can reroll your miss chance roll one time to see if you actually hit.
401|When you make an attack with a longbow or short bow (including composite bows), you can ignore concealment, but not total concealment. You still suffer a miss chance for total concealment, but if you miss due to total concealment, you may reroll your miss chance as per Elven Accuracy.
"402|You have received special training with traditional elven weapons (longbows, composite longbows, longswords, rapiers, shortbows, composite shortbows, and any weapon with the word ""elven"" in its name). You receive a +2 bonus to your CMD against disarm and sunder maneuvers directed at one of these weapons you are wielding.  In addition, if you are wielding one of these melee weapons, you may make an additional attack of opportunity each round (this bonus stacks with Combat Reflexes)."
403|You possess the elven magic racial trait of the elves, granting you a +2 racial bonus on caster level checks made to overcome spell resistance. In addition, you receive a +2 racial bonus on Spellcraft checks made to identify the properties of magic items. Alternatively, you can instead gain any one racial trait that elves can exchange for the elven magic racial trait.  Special: You can only take this feat at 1st level. If you take this feat, you cannot take the Human Spirit feat.
404|You gain familiarity with a number of additional spells based on the emotional focus of your phantom. These spells are added to both your class spell list (if not already on that list) and your list of spells known; they are in addition to the normal number of spells known for your level. The spells you gain are as follows (spells marked with a dagger [†] can be found on the Psychic Magic page):  Anger: 1st—burst of adrenaline, 2nd—rage, 3rd—howling agony, 4th—telekinetic charge, 5th—vengeful outrage, 6th—transformation.  Despair: 1st—touch of gracelessness, 2nd—death knell, 3rd—ray of exhaustion, 4th—crushing despair, 5th—suffocation, 6th—eyebite.  Devotion: 1st—invisibility alarm, 2nd—spiritual weapon, 3rd—cure light wounds, 4th—spell immunity, 5th—vampiric shadow shield, 6th—greater heroism.  Fear: 1st—heightened awareness, 2nd—scare, 3rd—fear, 4th—feast on fear, 5th—nightmare, 6th—frightful aspect.  Hatred: 1st—murderous command, 2nd—disfiguring touch, 3rd—bestow curse, 4th—debilitating portent, 5th—foster hatred, 6th—phantasmal revenge.  Jealousy: 1st—compel hostility, 2nd—life pact, 3rd—ectoplasmic snare, 4th—entrap spirit, 5th—dominate person, 6th—unwilling shield.  Zeal: 1st—delusional pride, 2nd—false life, 3rd—heroism, 4th—freedom of movement, 5th—joyful rapture, 6th—greater heroism.
405|All variable, numeric effects of an empowered spell are increased by half, including bonuses to those dice rolls.  Saving throws and opposed rolls are not affected, nor are spells without random variables. An empowered spell uses up a spell slot two levels higher than the spell's actual level.
406|Choose one of the creature's spell-like abilities, subject to the restrictions below. The creature can use that ability as an empowered spell-like ability three times per day (or less, if the ability is normally usable only once or twice per day).  When a creature uses an empowered spell-like ability, all variable, numeric effects of the spell-like ability are increased by half (+50%). Saving throws and opposed rolls are not affected. Spell-like abilities without random variables are not affected.  The creature can only select a spell-like ability duplicating a spell with a level less than or equal to 1/2 its caster level (round down) – 2. For a summary, see the table in the description of the Quicken Spell-Like Ability.  Special: This feat can be taken multiple times. Each time it is taken, the creature can apply it to a different spell-like ability.
407|You gain a +4 bonus on the following checks and saves: Swim checks made to resist nonlethal damage from exhaustion; Constitution checks made to continue running; Constitution checks made to avoid nonlethal damage from a forced march; Constitution checks made to hold your breath; Constitution checks made to avoid nonlethal damage from starvation or thirst; Fortitude saves made to avoid nonlethal damage from hot or cold environments; and Fortitude saves made to resist damage from suffocation.  You may sleep in light or medium armor without becoming fatigued.  Normal: A character without this feat who sleeps in medium or heavier armor is fatigued the next day.
408|As long as you have 1 ki point in your ki pool, when you fail your Constitution check to stabilize, you do not lose 1 hit point. If you succeed at the check, you can spend 1 ki point to heal 1d6 hit points. If you roll a natural 20 on the check to stabilize, you can spend 1 ki point to heal 2d6 hit points of damage instead.
409|When your hit point total is below 0, but you are not dead, you automatically stabilize. You do not need to make a Constitution check each round to avoid losing additional hit points. You may choose to act as if you were disabled, rather than dying. You must make this decision as soon as you are reduced to negative hit points (even if it isn't your turn). If you do not choose to act as if you were disabled, you immediately fall unconscious.  When using this feat, you are staggered. You can take a move action without further injuring yourself, but if you perform any standard action (or any other action deemed as strenuous, including some swift actions, such as casting a quickened spell) you take 1 point of damage after completing the act. If your negative hit points are equal to or greater than your Constitution score, you immediately die.  Normal: A character without this feat who is reduced to negative hit points is unconscious and dying.
410|You are not staggered while using the Diehard feat, but if you take a move and a standard action or a full-round action while you are at 0 or fewer hit points you take 1 point of damage. Further, while using the Diehard feat, you gain a +2 bonus on melee attacks and damage rolls.
411|When you are at 0 or fewer hit points, you do not lose 1 hit point when you take an action.
412|Whenever a creature rolls to confirm a critical hit against you, it must roll twice and take the lowest result.
413|The bonus on checks and saves from Endurance increases by half your tier. You take half the damage when you fail a check to avoid nonlethal damage from a forced march, starvation and thirst, hot or cold environments, or slow suffocation.  You can sleep in heavy armor without becoming fatigued.
414|When you regain hit points by resting or through magical healing, you recover additional hit points equal to half your Constitution modifier (minimum +1).
415|Once per day as an immediate action you can delay the onset of one harmful condition or affliction (such as panicked, paralyzed, stunned, and so on), including permanent and instantaneous conditions. Activating this feat delays the onset of the condition until the end of your next turn, after which time the condition takes its normal effect. This feat has no effect on hit point damage or ability damage.
416|Once per day as an immediate action, you can attempt to negate the onset of one harmful condition or affliction (such as panicked, paralyzed, stunned, and so on) that allowed a saving throw for its onset, not including permanent and instantaneous conditions. When you do so, attempt a Will saving throw with a bonus equal to your tier against the original DC of the effect. If you succeed, the condition is negated. If you fail, the onset is delayed until the end of your next turn, after which it takes its normal effect. This feat has no effect on hit point damage or ability damage.  This effect is separate from the use of non-mythic Heroic Defiance.
417|Once per day as a standard action you may attempt a new saving throw against a harmful condition or affliction requiring a Fortitude save that is affecting you. If this save against the affliction fails, there is no additional effect, but a successful save counts toward curing an affliction such as poison or disease. You cannot use this feat to recover from instantaneous effects, effects that do not allow a saving throw, or effects that do not require a Fortitude save.
418|As a swift action, you can expend one use of mythic power to use Heroic Recovery additional times. Whenever you do, add your tier to the result of the Fortitude save.
419|While using the total defense action, fighting defensively action, or Combat Expertise, you can forgo the dodge bonus to AC you would normally gain to instead gain an equivalent amount of DR, to a maximum of DR 5/—, until the start of your next turn. This damage reduction stacks with DR you gain from class features, such as the barbarian's, but not with DR from any other source. If you are denied your Dexterity bonus to AC, you are also denied this DR.
420|Double the DR you gain from Stalwart, to a maximum of DR 10/—.
421|When you are killed by hit point damage, your soul lingers in your body for a number of rounds equal to your Constitution bonus. You are still dead, but a creature can make a DC 10 Heal check as a standard action to realize that you can still be saved. You can be healed by magic as if you were alive. If you are healed enough hit points that you would no longer be dead, you are alive again, but you gain one permanent negative level.
422|You reduce the penalty from being grazed, wounded, or critical by 1 (to –0, –1, and –2, respectively).  In addition, you gain a +4 bonus on the following checks and saves: Swim checks to resist nonlethal damage from exhaustion, Constitution checks to continue running, Constitution checks to avoid nonlethal damage from a forced march, Constitution checks to hold your breath, Constitution checks to avoid nonlethal damage from starvation or thirst, Fortitude saves to avoid nonlethal damage from hot or cold environments, and Fortitude saves to resist damage from suffocation.  You can sleep in light or medium armor without becoming fatigued.  Normal: A character without this feat who sleeps in medium or heavier armor is fatigued the next day.
423|As a swift action, you can expend one use of channel energy to grant your weapon attacks a bonus on damage rolls equal to twice the number of dice rolled for your channel energy. This additional damage is of an energy type determined by your domain or blessing: acid (Earth), cold (Water), electricity (Air), or fire (Fire). If you have more than one of those domains or blessings, you choose one of those damage types each time you use this ability. This effect lasts for your next three weapon attacks or until the end of the combat encounter, whichever comes first.
424|Whenever you deal nonlethal damage with a melee weapon, you can make an Intimidate check to demoralize your target as a free action. If you are successful, the target is shaken for a number of rounds equal to the damage dealt. If your attack was a critical hit, your target is frightened for 1 round with a successful Intimidate check, as well as being shaken for a number of rounds equal to the damage dealt.
425|You can alter a spell with a range of close, medium, or long to increase its range by 100%. An enlarged spell with a range of close now has a range of 50 ft. + 5 ft./level, while medium-range spells have a range of 200 ft. + 20 ft./level and long-range spells have a range of 800 ft. + 80 ft./level. An enlarged spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell's actual level.  Spells whose ranges are not defined by distance, as well as spells whose ranges are not close, medium, or long, do not benefit from this feat.
426|When you are performing, allies within 20 feet who also have this feat can aid you with your Perform checks (including those made as part of bardic performance) as if they were aiding another as an immediate action. The allies make their aid another rolls before you make your check. No more than four allies can grant you a bonus with aid another. Allies aiding you do not need to use the same category of the Perform skill that you are using in order to aid you.  Special: If you possess one or more levels of the bard class, you can choose any one ally within 20 feet to be part of the ensemble. The ally is considered to have the ensemble teamwork feat for the purposes of aiding your performance.
427|An ally who also has this feat provokes no attacks of opportunity for moving through squares adjacent to you or within your space.
428|You can cast any spell with a material component costing 1 gp or less without needing that component. The casting of the spell still provokes attacks of opportunity as normal. If the spell requires a material component that costs more than 1 gp, you must have the material component on hand to cast the spell, as normal.
429|When you cast a spell that uses esoteric material components, you can spend components as though your caster level were 2 lower (with a minimum of the spell's minimum caster level). This does not affect the cost of expensive material components.  Open Game License.
430|You can cast any spell with a material component costing 10 gp per tier or less without providing that component. If you expend one use of mythic power while casting a spell that requires a material component costing 50 gp per tier or less, you can cast it without providing that component. Expending two uses of mythic power instead allows you to cast a spell that requires a material component costing 100 gp per tier or less without providing that component.
431|When you cast an abjuration spell using geodes as an esoteric material component, you can grant a single target of that spell a +1 competence bonus on its Fortitude, Reflex, or Will saving throws for the duration of the spell. The spell must have a duration measured in rounds or minutes, and a creature can benefit from no more than one bonus from this feat at a time.  When you gain geodes' greater component effect with an abjuration spell, treat your caster level as an additional 1 higher for determining the duration.
432|When you cast a conjuration spell using prismatic sand as an esoteric material component, select one creature summoned, called, or moved from another plane by your spell. For 1 round, that creature hasn't fully phased onto the current plane, causing all attacks against it to suffer a 20% miss chance (attacks without attack rolls deal 20% less damage).  When you gain prismatic sand's greater component effect with a conjuration spell, treat your caster level as an additional 2 higher for determining the range. This happens regardless of whether you chose to increase range or area with the greater component effect. This feat does not allow you to further increase the size of an area.
433|When you cast a divination spell using verdant salts as an esoteric material component, you're more likely to get good information. You gain one of the following benefits, as appropriate to the spell: you increase the likelihood of a percentage-based divination to work correctly by 5% (giving a –5 penalty on the d% roll for contact other plane, for example), you gain a +2 competence bonus on Perception checks while perceiving through a divination (scrying) spell such as scrying, or you can ask one additional question (with contact other plane or speak with dead).  When you gain verdant salts' greater component effect with a divination spell, increase the DC by an additional 1.
434|When you cast an enchantment spell using verdant salts as an esoteric material component, one target affected by your spell takes a –2 penalty on your choice of ability checks, attack rolls, damage rolls, saving throws, or skill checks for 1 round. If your spell allows a saving throw and the target succeeds at its save, it doesn't take this penalty. A creature can be affected by only one penalty from this feat at a time. This is a mind-affecting effect.  When you gain verdant salts' greater component effect with an enchantment spell, increase the DC by an additional 1.
435|When you cast an evocation spell using entropic resin as an esoteric material component, you can damage one creature adjacent to you. The resin deals 1 point of damage per 2 caster levels of the spell (minimum 1), and matches the damage type of your spell.  When you gain entropic resin's greater component effect with an evocation spell, treat your caster level as an additional 1 higher for determining both the damage dice of the spell and the extra damage from Esoteric Evocation. This also increases the spell's maximum damage dice if applicable.
436|When you cast an illusion spell using prismatic sand as an esoteric material component, the DC to disbelieve the illusion increases by 2, as does the spell's AC, if applicable. This benefit lasts for the duration of the spell, but doesn't affect spells with a duration of instantaneous or permanent.  When you gain prismatic sand's greater component effect with an illusion spell, treat your caster level as an additional 2 higher for determining the range. This happens regardless of whether you chose to increase range or area with the greater component effect. This feat does not allow you to further increase the size of an area.
437|When you cast a necromancy spell using entropic resin as an esoteric material component, one target of that spell becomes shaken. If your spell allows a saving throw and the target succeeds at its save, it is unaffected by this effect. If the spell causes the target to become shaken or frightened, this effect doesn't increase the severity of that condition (so a spell that frightens a creature wouldn't instead cause it to become panicked due to this feat). This is a mind-affecting fear effect.  When you gain entropic resin's greater component effect with a necromancy spell, treat your caster level as an additional 1 higher for determining the damage dice. (This also increases the spell's maximum damage dice if applicable.)
438|When you cast a transmutation spell using geodes as an esoteric material component, you gain a +2 bonus on attack rolls, ability checks, and skill checks based on your choice of Strength, Dexterity, or Constitution (you make this choice each time). This bonus lasts until the end of your next turn.  When you gain geodes' greater component effect with a transmutation spell, treat your caster level as an additional 1 higher for determining the duration.
439|When you take this feat, select a 1-point evolution other than pounce or reach from those available to a summoner's eidolon. Your animal companion gains this evolution. The animal companion must conform to any limitations of the evolution. For instance, you can give the mount evolution only to an animal companion of an appropriate size and base form.  If you gain a new animal companion, your old animal companion loses this evolution, and you can select a new 1-point evolution for the new animal companion.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you do, select an additional 1-point evolution for your animal companion.
440|Select an evolution from the list of 1-point evolutions available to a summoner's eidolon. Your familiar has this evolution. The familiar must conform to any limitations of the evolution. For instance, no familiars can benefit from the mount evolution and only familiars with wings can take the wing buffet evolution.  If you gain a new familiar, your old familiar loses all evolutions, and you can select a new 1-point evolution for the new familiar.  Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects stack, granting a new 1-point evolution to your familiar each time you gain this feat.
441|Whenever you trigger a painful stare, the target must succeed at a Will saving throw (DC = 10 + 1/2 your mesmerist level + your Charisma modifier) or become sickened by the pain for 1 round.
442|Once per day, when you fail a Will save against an enchantment spell or effect, you may reroll that saving throw, but must take the reroll result even if it's worse.
443|You gain a +2 bonus on all saving throws against scrying or divination effects. Additionally, you gain a +2 bonus on all Stealth checks, and elves, half-elves, and humans take a –4 penalty on all efforts to track you through the Survival skill.
444|You are not considered elven or human for the purpose of harmful spells or effects based on your type, like a bane weapon or a ranger's favored enemy class feature.
445|You make attack rolls with the weapon normally.  Normal: A character who uses a weapon with which he is not proficient takes a –4 penalty on attack rolls.  Special: You can gain Exotic Weapon Proficiency multiple times. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new type of exotic weapon.
446|You can treat a net as a one-handed melee reach weapon with a 10-foot reach. Further, you take no penalty on melee attack rolls for using an unfolded net, and you can use one full-round action or two move actions to fold a net.  Normal: A net is a ranged weapon that imposes a –4 penalty on ranged attack rolls if it is unfolded. Folding a net takes a proficient user 2 rounds.
447|You can treat a net as a one-handed ranged weapon, allowing you to wield a light or one-handed melee weapon and still make ranged attacks with your net. When you use your light or one-handed melee weapon to attack an entangled opponent, you gain a +2 bonus on damage rolls and on attack rolls to confirm a critical hit.  Normal: A net is a two-handed ranged weapon.
448|In melee, you can use a net to trip or disarm opponents instead of entangling them. You gain a +2 bonus on disarm checks made to use a net in this way. Further, if you have an opponent entangled in your net, you can attempt to drag or reposition that opponent as long as he is within your net's reach or you control the trailing rope on your net.
449|In place of one of your melee attacks, you can use your net to attempt a dirty trick combat maneuver to blind an opponent (Advance Player's Guide 320). If you have an opponent entangled in your net, you can attempt to trip that opponent as long as he is within your net's reach or you control the trailing rope on your net. You also gain a +2 bonus on drag and reposition combat maneuver checks you make using your net.
450|Add one spell from your class's spell list to your list of spells known. This is in addition to the number of spells normally gained at each new level in your class. You may instead add two spells from your class's spell list to your list of spells known, but both of these spells must be at least one level lower than the highest level spell you can cast in that class. Once made, these choices cannot be changed.  Special: You can only take this feat if you possess levels in a class whose spellcasting relies on a limited list of spells known, such as the bard, oracle, and sorcerer.  You can gain Expanded Arcana multiple times.
451|Pick one of the following energy types that you do not already have resistance to: acid, cold, electricity, or fire. You gain resistance 5 to that energy type.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you do, pick another energy type you do not have resistance to. You gain resistance 5 to that energy type.
452|Your phrenic pool total increases by 2 points.
453|You gain an extra spell prepared of the highest level you can currently cast as an arcanist when selecting this feat. This is in addition to the number of spells you can normally prepare from your spellbook. You can instead add two spells prepared, but both of these slots must be at least 1 level lower than the highest-level spell you can currently cast as an arcanist when selecting this feat. You must choose which benefit you gain when you take this feat, and the extra spells prepared do not change level when you gain access to higher-level spells.  Special: You can take this feat up to three times. Each time you do, you can choose either benefit.
454|Select one school of magic other than illusion. You gain a +2 racial bonus on saving throws against spells or effects from the selected school.  Special: You may select this feat more than once. Its effects do not stack. Each time you select it, it applies to a different school of magic.
455|Select an implement school. When you place mental focus points into an implement of that school, you can choose to gain benefits from the resonant power as if you had placed only half as many points of mental focus into the implement. If you do, you can extend the same benefits to one additional ally within 30 feet at the time you invest mental focus. If the ally moves outside of the extended power's range, the power is suppressed, but it resumes functioning once the ally moves within range again. You can spend 1 point of mental focus from your implement to pass the effect to a new target, so long as both the original target and the new one are within 30 feet. This feat can affect only one implement from a given school at a time, even if you have selected the same implement school more than once.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you take the feat, select a different implement school.
456|Once per day, when you successfully identify all abilities and weaknesses of a creature using the appropriate Knowledge check, you gain a +2 bonus on attack and damage rolls against that creature for 1 minute. If you identify the abilities and weaknesses of numerous creatures, you must pick one creature to be the target of this effect.
457|Add your Wisdom modifier (minimum 1) to the number of minutes per day that you can use your animal focus ability.
458|Add your Wisdom bonus to the number of rounds per day that you can use your bane ability.
459|The range of your hypnotic stare increases by 10 feet.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Its effects stack.
460|An extended spell lasts twice as long as normal. A spell with a duration of concentration, instantaneous, or permanent is not affected by this feat. An extended spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell's actual level.
461|You gain one additional phrenic amplification. This can't be a major amplification.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you do, you gain another phrenic amplification.
462|You gain one additional magus arcana. You must meet all the prerequisites for this magus arcana.  Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects stack, granting a new arcana each time you gain this feat.
463|Your arcane pool increases by 2.  Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects stack, granting you an increase to your arcane pool each time you take this feat.
464|You gain one additional arcanist exploit. You must meet the prerequisites for this arcanist exploit.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you do, you gain another arcanist exploit.
465|You can use your bane ability for 3 additional rounds per day.
466|You can throw two additional bombs per day.  Special: You can gain Extra Bombs multiple times. Its effects stack.
467|Add two cantrips to your cantrips known or two orisons to your orisons known.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you do, add two cantrips or orisons to your spells known.
468|You can channel energy two additional times per day.  Special: If a paladin with the ability to channel positive energy takes this feat, she can use lay on hands four additional times a day, but only to channel positive energy.
469|You gain one extra use of terrifying croak per hour. If your recharge time is less than 1 hour, you instead gain an extra use each time the ability recharges.
470|You gain one additional discovery. You must meet all of the prerequisites for this discovery.  Special: You can gain Extra Discovery multiple times.
471|Your elemental assault ability lasts an additional 2 rounds per day.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Its effects stack.
472|Your eidolon's evolution pool increases by 1.  Special: This evolution can be taken once at 1st level, and again at 5th, 10th, 15th and 20th.
473|You gain one additional focus power from among those available from your chosen implement schools. You must select a power for which you normally qualify.  Special: You can choose this feat once for every implement school you know, up to a maximum of seven times at 18th level. Each time you do, you must choose a different focus power. If you have selected the same implement school more than once, you can select a focus power from that school once for each time you selected that school.
474|You gain one additional hex. You must meet all of the prerequisites for this hex.  Special: You can gain Extra Hex multiple times.
475|You gain three extra use per day of inspiration in your inspiration pool.  Special: If you have levels in the investigator class, you can take this feat multiple times. Each time you do, you gain three extra uses of inspiration per day.
476|You gain one additional investigator talent. You must meet the prerequisites for this investigator talent.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you do, you gain another investigator talent.
477|Your ki pool increases by 2.  Special: You can gain Extra Ki multiple times. Its effects stack.
478|You can use your lay on hands ability two additional times per day.  Special: You can gain Extra Lay On Hands multiple times. Its effects stack.
479|You can use your martial flexibility ability three additional times per day.
480|You gain 2 additional points of mental focus.
481|Select one additional mercy for which you qualify. When you use lay on hands to heal damage to one target, it also receives the additional effects of this mercy.  Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take this feat, select a new mercy.
482|You can implant two additional mesmerist tricks per day.  Special: You can gain Extra Mesmerist Tricks multiple times. Its effects stack.
483|You gain two extra uses of mythic power each day.
484|Choose one mythic ability from your path or from the universal path abilities that you meet the prerequisites for. You gain that path ability.
485|You can use bardic performance for 6 additional rounds per day.  Special: You can gain Extra Performance multiple times. Its effects stack.
486|You can rage for 6 additional rounds per day.  Special: You can gain Extra Rage multiple times. Its effects stack.
487|You gain one additional rage power. You must meet all of the prerequisites for this rage power.  Special: You can gain Extra Rage Power multiple times.
488|You can set ranger traps two additional times per day.
489|You gain 3 more points in your arcane reservoir, and the maximum number of points in your arcane reservoir increases by that amount.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Its effects stack.
490|You gain one additional revelation. You must meet all of the prerequisites for this revelation.  Special: You can gain Extra Revelation multiple times.
491|You gain one additional rogue talent. You must meet all of the prerequisites for this rogue talent.  Special: You can gain Extra Rogue Talent multiple times.
492|You gain one additional slayer talent. You must meet the prerequisites for this slayer talent.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you do, you gain another slayer talent.
493|You gain 1 additional use of your summon monster spell-like ability per day.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times, but it can only be taken once for every five summoner levels you possess.
494|You can use touch treatment two additional times per day.
495|You gain a wild talent that's at least 2 levels lower than the highest-level wild talent you can currently use. You can select an infusion or a non-infusion wild talent, but not a blast or defense wild talent. If you have the expanded element class feature, you can select a wild talent from any of your elements that's at least 2 levels lower than the highest-level wild talent from your primary element that you can currently use.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Each time, you must choose a different wild talent.
496|When using your detect alignment class feature, you may spend 3 rounds studying a creature within 60 feet. You cannot take any other actions while doing this. After that time has passed, you learn the alignment of the creature.
497|Drinking strong alcohol to gain temporary ki, takes a swift action rather than a standard action.
498|Using wild empathy is a standard action for you.  Normal: Using wild empathy requires 1 minute.
499|You can use wild empathy as a swift action.
500|When you gain a level in a favored class, you gain both +1 hit point and +1 skill rank instead of choosing either one or the other benefit or you can choose an alternate class reward.
"501|You gain a +2 bonus on all skill checks for skills you have no ranks in. Furthermore, you can use all skills designated ""trained only"" untrained."
502|Your nonproficiency penalty with weapons, armor, and shields is halved. In addition, the bonus on all skill checks for skills you have no ranks in increases to +4 instead of +2.
503|When a target takes damage from your painful stare, it must succeed at a Fortitude saving throw (DC = 10 + 1/2 your mesmerist level + your Charisma modifier) or become fatigued for 1 round. This can't cause the target to become exhausted, even if the target is already fatigued.
504|Choose one of your favored enemy types. You add half your favored enemy bonus to your CMD and as a dodge bonus to AC when attacked by a favored enemy.  Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take this feat, it applies to a new favored enemy type.
505|When you take this feat, choose a creature type or a humanoid subtype from the Ranger Favored Enemies table. When creatures of the chosen type attempt saving throws against your spells, they treat the spells' DCs as 1 higher. If you also have the favored enemy class feature and the chosen type is already a favored enemy of yours, such creatures treat your spells' DCs as 2 higher.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you do, it applies to a different creature type.
506|Select a favored race from the ranger's favored enemies chart. Any sacred or profane bonus you gain from a judgment is 1 higher for attacks you make against or take from creatures that match the selected favored enemy.  Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a different favored enemy.
507|Your aura of courage expands to a 20-foot-radius emanation. Allies within the aura are immune to fear effects.  Normal: The aura of courage affects each ally within 10 feet, and grants a +4 morale bonus on saving throws against fear effects.
508|You gain a +1 bonus on saving throws against effects with the emotion descriptor. In addition, for any round in which you begin your turn affected by a fear effect, you gain a new save at the beginning of your turn to reduce the severity of the fear effect, from panicked to frightened, frightened to shaken, and shaken to unaffected.
509|You gain a +1 bonus on saving throws against effects with the emotion descriptor; this bonus stacks with those granted by Fearless Curiosity and Intimidating Confidence. In addition, once per day you may reroll a natural 1 on a saving throw or an attack roll. If your reroll results in a successful saving throw or attack roll, as a free action you can make an Intimidate check to demoralize the target of your attack or the creature that forced you to make a saving throw, as long as the creature is within 30 feet and can see and hear you. This effect does not apply on saving throws against traps or other objects. This does not stack with other effects that allow you to reroll a saving throw or an attack roll. You may only make one reroll.
510|You gain a +1 bonus on saving throws against effects with the emotion descriptor; this bonus stacks with the bonus granted by Fearless Curiosity. When you confirm a critical hit, as a free action you can make an Intimidate check to demoralize one creature you threaten. If you have the Dazzling Display feat, you can make Intimidate checks to demoralize all creatures you threaten instead. You gain a +2 bonus on this check if your weapon has a ×3 critical modifier, or +4 if it has a ×4 critical modifier.
511|Once per day, you can add a +2 bonus on any single attack roll, caster level check, saving throw, or skill check. You must choose to add this bonus after the die has been rolled and success or failure determined, but before any results (such as damage) are rolled and applied. If you have 10 or more levels or hit dice, this bonus increases to +4.  Goal: Die in pursuit of your faith's goals and be brought back to life. If you die in circumstances that don't involve your faith, you gain no benefit. If your GM permits, you can instead remain dead and create a new PC inspired by your heroic sacrifice.  Completion
512|When a creature takes damage from a fearsome spell, if that creature failed its save against the spell, it becomes shaken for a number of rounds equal to the spell's original level. If the spell doesn't allow a save, creatures harmed by it can attempt a Will save (against the same DC the spell would have if it did allow a save) to negate the shaken effect. If the spell effect already causes creatures to become shaken, on a failed save, add the duration of this metamagic effect to the duration of the shaken condition imposed by the spell. A fearsome spell can't cause a creature to become frightened, even if that creature is already shaken. A fearsome spell uses up a spell slot 2 levels higher than the spell's actual level.
513|Whenever an ally who also has this feat successfully feints an opponent, that opponent also loses his Dexterity bonus to AC against the next attack you make against him before the end of the feinting ally's next turn.
514|Whenever an ally who also has this feat successfully feints against an opponent, that opponent provokes an attack of opportunity from you.
515|You gain a +2 bonus to your CMD against bull rush, grapple, overrun, repositioning, and trip combat maneuvers.
516|Whenever you receive a morale bonus on Strength or attack rolls (such as from heroism or the barbarian rage class feature), you receive a +2 bonus on Dexterity- and Strength-based ability and skill checks and a +1 bonus on Reflex saves until the morale bonus effect ends.  Goal: Woo and then marry or otherwise enter into a committed relationship with a person from a civilized culture. This relationship must be forged in love, not bought or coerced.  Completion
517|When you fall to 0 hit points or fewer, you lose 2 hit points each round, but you are not staggered. If you are in a rage (such as that caused by the barbarian rage class feature), you instead only lose 1 hit point per round.
518|You gain the ferocity universal monster ability, allowing you to continue fighting at negative hit points. When using this ability, you gain a +2 bonus on Intimidate checks.  Normal: A half-orc with the orc ferocity racial trait can fight for 1 more round after he is brought below 0 hit points.
519|Once per day when raging, if you are hit by an attack that would deal enough hit points of damage to kill you (negative hit points equal to your Constitution score), as an immediate action you may expend 1 or more rounds of rage to negate some of this damage and keep yourself alive. Each round of rage you spend reduces the attack's damage by 1 point, but cannot reduce the damage taken below 1 hit point.  For example, if you are raging, have a raging Constitution score of 18, are currently at 2 hit points, and take 20 hit points of damage from a hit (which is enough to bring you to –18 hit points, thereby killing you), you may spend 1 round of rage to reduce the damage by 1 hit point (leaving you perilously close to death at –17 hit points); if you spend 17 rounds of rage, you reduce the damage to 1 (the minimum), leaving you with 1 hit point.  Note: If this damage still makes you fall unconscious, your rage ends just like it normally would, lowering your Constitution to its normal value and reducing your hit point total as normal. Therefore, it is possible to use this feat to prevent yourself from instantly dying, yet you still die because your negative hit points exceed your normal Constitution score—take your normal Constitution into account when deciding how many rounds of rage to spend with this feat.
520|If you are trained in a Craft skill appropriate to a broken item, you can repair that item with no raw material cost and no penalty on your Craft skill check for using improvised tools. If you spend a day, the item regains 1 hit point plus one-quarter of its original hit points. Alternatively, if the item gained the broken condition because it is a firearm that has misfired or a siege engine that suffered a mishap, or has the broken condition because it has the fragile weapon quality (or some similar quality), you can make a Craft check with the DC it takes to craft that item (see Table 2–2, below). If the check succeeds, the item loses the broken condition.  Normal: Improvised tools impose a –2 penalty on Craft checks. Items require raw materials to repair.
521|You gain low-light vision and your darkvision improves to 120 ft.  Special: You can take this feat twice. When you take it a second time, you gain the see in darkness universal monster ability.
522|Once per day, you can gain a number of temporary hit points equal to your Constitution modifier. You can activate this feat as an immediate action when reduced to 0 or fewer hit points. You can use this feat to prevent yourself from dying. These temporary hit points last for 1 minute. If your hit points drop below 0 due to the loss of these temporary hit points, you fall unconscious and are dying as normal. If you also have the ferocity racial trait, you can use that once you have lost the temporary hit points from this feat.
523|You gain the constrict and grab special attacks. Your constrict attack deals damage equal to your unarmed strike or primary natural weapon melee attack. Further, you can grab and constrict opponents up to your size.  Normal: You can grab and constrict creatures one size smaller than you.
524|A creature that takes damage from your constrict attack is also shaken until the start of your next turn.
525|Double the number of damage dice for your constrict special attack.
526|You can wield a torch as a weapon without taking the nonproficient penalty and gain a +1 bonus on attack rolls with melee weapons that deal fire damage.
527|When you cast a bard spell that deals damage, you may replace the spell's normal damage with fire damage or split the spell's damage so that half of it is the normal damage type and half is fire damage.  If you cast a summon monster spell as a bard spell,  you may choose to give the summoned creature a fiery appearance, which gives it fire resistance 5 and adds +1 fire damage to all of its natural attacks. The creature sheds dim light in a 5-foot radius. This aspect of the feat has no effect if the creature already has the fire subtype.  When you use this feat, the affected spell gains the fire descriptor.
528|When you use Fire Music to change any of the damage dealt by a bard spell to fire damage, that damage ignores fire resistance up to your tier.  If you cast summon monster as a bard spell and choose to give the summoned creature a fiery appearance, increase its fire resistance by 5 (adding to the resistance already granted by Fire Music) and add 1d4 points of fire damage to all of its natural attacks instead of the +1 fire damage normally granted by Fire Music. Creatures with the fire subtype also gain these benefits.
529|You can see through fire and smoke without penalty, ignoring any cover or concealment bonuses from fire and smoke. This does not allow you to see anything you could not otherwise see (for example, invisible creatures are still invisible). You are immune to the dazzled condition.
530|You gain a +2 bonus on saves against spells with the fire descriptor. Additionally, your scars mark you as a talented fire tamer, granting you a +2 circumstance bonus on Diplomacy and Intimidate checks when dealing with other goblins.
531|You gain fire resistance 5. When casting spells with the fire descriptor or throwing alchemist bombs that deal fire damage, treat your caster level or alchemist level as if you were 1 level higher.
532|Whenever you hit an adjacent opponent with a melee attack, until the start of your next turn, that opponent does not gain any flanking bonus on attack rolls while it is flanking you and cannot deal sneak attack damage to you. It can still provide a flank for its allies.
533|The electricity, fire, or light effects of the affected spell create a flaring that dazzles creatures that take damage from the spell. A flare spell causes a creature that takes fire or electricity damage from the affected spell to become dazzled for a number of rounds equal to the actual level of the spell. A flaring spell only affects spells with a fire, light, or electricity descriptor. A flaring spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell's actual level.
534|While you are wearing light or no armor, your base speed increases by 5 feet. You lose the benefits of this feat if you carry a medium or heavy load.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. The effects stack.
535|Your base land speed increases by 5 feet, regardless of what armor you wear or whether you're encumbered. This bonus stacks with the bonus gained from Fleet.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times, but no more than the number of times you've taken non-mythic Fleet. The effects stack.
536|As a free action, you can increase your land speed by 10 feet for 1 minute. You lose your regeneration ability while you benefit from this enhancement bonus to your land speed and for 1 minute afterward. You can end this ability early as a free action. You can activate this ability only if your regeneration is functioning.
537|Once per day as a swift action, you can change your wandering hex. When you change your hex, the new hex must be associated with the wandering spirit with which you are currently bonded. At 12th level, you can change either or both of your wandering hexes with the feat.  Normal: Shamans select their hexes every day when they prepare their spells and cannot change them.
538|When flying, the creature can take a move action and another standard action at any point during the move. The creature cannot take a second move action during a round when it makes a flyby attack.  Normal: Without this feat, the creature takes a standard action either before or after its move.
539|While you are adjacent to your eidolon, you receive a +4 bonus on concentration checks.
540|When you take this feat, choose two skills that you either are trained in or can use untrained. You must be able to use inspiration with these skills. When you use inspiration on checks involving those skills, roll a d8 instead of a d6, or a d10 if you would normally roll a d8. If you have the true inspiration class feature, you roll twice as many such dice (2d8 or 2d10) as normal.
541|While you are adjacent to your phantom or your phantom is within your consciousness, you receive a +4 bonus on concentration checks.
542|When casting a spell that affects or targets more than one creature, you can choose one target or creature within the spell effect. That creature's saving throw DC to resist the spell is increased by +2. You must choose which target to focus the spell on before casting the spell. A focused spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell's actual level.  Spells that do not require a saving throw to resist or lessen the spell's effect do not benefit from this feat.
543|The save DCs for your spells or abilities increase by 1 when you use them against the chosen group, and you gain a +1 dodge bonus to AC against their attacks.  Goal: Slay an appropriate number of challenging foes.  Completion
544|When you channel energy, instead of creating its normal effect, you can give orcs a bonus on weapon damage and critical hit confirmation rolls until your next turn. This bonus is equal to the number of dice your channeled energy normally heals or harms. Your channel has its normal effect on other creatures in the area.
545|As a swift action, you can sacrifice a prepared arcane force spell (or if you are a spontaneous caster, a spell slot of the same level as an arcane force spell you know) to give yourself an enhancement bonus to speed. The bonus gained is equal to 10 feet × the level of the spell sacrificed. The bonus applies to all forms of movement, and it lasts 1 round. If you charge while this bonus is in effect, you do not take the normal –2 penalty to AC until the start of your next turn.
546|You can create magic rings. Crafting a ring takes 1 day for each 1,000 gp in its base price. To craft a ring, you must use up raw materials costing half of the base price. See the magic item creation rules in Magic Items for more information.  You can also mend a broken ring if it is one that you could make. Doing so costs half the raw materials and half the time it would take to forge that ring in the first place.
547|The duration of mind-affecting spells (even beneficial ones) is halved for you, to a minimum of 1 round. Your inquisitive nature gives you a +2 bonus on Perception checks. If you have 10 or more ranks in Perception, this bonus increases to +4.  Goal: Regain a major portion of your lost memories. The exact means varies, possibly requiring a wish, assistance from a divine being, reliving a past life, or confronting the situation that led to your memory loss. This process must involve encountering a challenging foe, though possibly in ways other than direct confrontation.  Completion
548|Once per day, you can record the formula for a spell that you saw being cast and identified with Spellcraft in the past 24 hours. This spell must be on the alchemist formula list.
549|If an opponent scores a critical hit against you, you can turn the critical hit into a normal hit. If you do, either your armor or your shield gains the broken condition (your choice).
550|The number of times per day you can use the adaptable luck racial trait increases by 1.
551|Increase the number of times per day you can use the adaptable luck racial trait by 1. Furthermore, when you use adaptable luck, increase the luck bonus for each type of use by 2.
552|A furious spell that deals hit point damage adds twice the spell's original level to the amount of damage dealt by the spell. Spells that affect multiple targets deal the extra damage once to each target, regardless of whether the spell deals its damage all at once or in multiple hits (in the latter case, add the extra damage to the first hit against each target). In addition, a furious spell can be cast while the caster is enraged, including during a barbarian rage or while affected by a rage spell. Even a furious spell that requires an emotion component can be cast while enraged. The caster gains a +2 circumstance bonus on concentration checks and caster level checks related to casting a furious spell if she is enraged. A furious spell uses up a spell slot 1 level higher than the spell's actual level.
553|Increase your base speed by 20 feet when your size increases
554|You gain a +2 bonus on Knowledge (dungeoneering) checks to identify the vulnerabilities and powers of aberrations, Knowledge (planes) checks to identify the vulnerabilities and powers of evil outsiders, and Knowledge (religion) checks to identify the vulnerabilities and powers of undead, and you can make such checks untrained. If you have 10 or more ranks in any of these Knowledge skills, the bonus increases to +4 for the appropriate skill. In addition, you gain a +2 bonus on saves against fear effects.  Goal: Be killed or driven insane (as determined by the GM) by an aberration, evil outsider, or undead. This leaves your mind permanently marked.  Completion
555|You gain darkvision 90 ft., but gain the light sensitivity weakness.
556|Gain the ability to see up to 15 feet clearly in magical darkness, such as that created by the deeper darkness spell
557|You gain the see in darkness ability  and lose the light sensitivity weakness, but gain the light blindness weakness.
558|In addition to your normal gnome spell-like abilities, you also gain the following spell-like abilities: 1/day—mage hand and prestidigitation.
559|You gain the following spell-like abilities: 1/day—blur and vanish.  You can use your gnome spell-like abilities an additional number of times per day equal to half your tier. You can spend these additional uses to use any of your gnome spell-like abilities you wish. Your caster level for your gnome spell-like abilities becomes your character level plus your tier.
"560|You gain a +1 bonus on attack rolls with gnome weapons (weapons with ""gnome"" in the title)."
561|You can wield Medium firearms without taking the penalty for an inappropriately sized weapon.  Normal: You take a –2 penalty when using an inappropriately sized weapon.
562|When you are raging and you confirm a critical hit with a melee weapon or a critical hit is confirmed on you (whether by a melee weapon, spell, or ranged weapon), you regain 1 round of rage (up to your maximum for the day). You can only gain this benefit once per round.
563|During the first round of combat, flat-footed opponents are considered not to have noticed you yet for the purposes of Stealth skill checks, allowing you to make a Stealth check that round to hide from them.
564|At the start of each encounter, you can either choose to keep the bonus granted to you by your Wisdom modifier on initiative checks or choose to give that bonus to one of your allies that you can see. You must make this choice before you or the ally you are granting the bonus to makes the initiative check.
565|You can use your tail to grab stowed items. While you cannot wield weapons with your tail, you can use it to retrieve small, stowed objects carried on your person as a swift action.  Special: If you have the prehensile tail racial trait, you can use your tail to grab unattended items within 5 feet as a swift action as well as to grab stowed objects carried on your person; you can hold such objects with your tail, though you cannot manipulate them with your tail (other than to put them in your hand).
566|Choose one spell-like ability that is usable once per day and is granted by a duergar racial trait you don't have. You can use that spell-like ability once per day, with a caster level equal to your character level.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you do, you must select a spell-like ability that's usable once per day from a different duergar racial trait.
567|You no longer take a penalty to AC while in a blood frenzy. In addition, if you strike an enemy with both of your claw attacks—or two or more claw attacks if you have extra limbs—while in a blood frenzy, you can rend (as the special attack), dealing an amount of additional damage equal to your claw damage plus 1-1/2 times your Strength bonus (minimum 0).
568|When you make a full attack while in a blood frenzy, you can give up your regular attacks to instead make one melee attack at your highest base attack bonus against each bleeding or wounded opponent within reach. You must use a natural weapon with these attacks, and you must make a separate attack roll against each opponent. You do not need to use the same natural weapon against each opponent.  When you use Blood Tide, you also forfeit any extra attacks granted by other feats, spells, or abilities.
569|When you use your lay on hands ability and the target of that ability does not have any conditions your mercies can remove, it instead heals an additional +1d6 points of damage.
570|You can expend 10 uses of lay on hands to bring a single dead creature you touch back to life as a raise dead spell with a caster level equal to your paladin level. You must provide the material component for raise dead or choose to accept 1 temporary negative level; this level automatically goes away after 24 hours, never becomes a permanent negative level, and cannot be overcome in any way except by waiting for the duration to expire.
571|You gain a +2 insight bonus on wild empathy checks, and you may use wild empathy to duplicate an Intimidate check rather than a Diplomacy check. In addition, choose one of the following kinds of creatures: elementals, fey, lycanthropes, plants, or vermin. You may influence creatures of that type with wild empathy, if their Intelligence score is 1 or 2, or they do not possess an Intelligence score. Once you choose the type of creature, it cannot be changed.  Special: You may select this feat more than once. Each time, you may choose an additional creature type to influence.
572|You get a +2 bonus on all Fortitude saving throws.
573|Whenever you roll a Fortitude saving throw against a spell, spell-like ability, or supernatural ability from a non-mythic source, roll twice and take the higher result.
574|Once per day, you may reroll a Fortitude save. You must decide to use this ability before the results are revealed. You must take the second roll, even if it is worse.
575|You gain an additional +1 bonus on melee and thrown weapon attacks against targets of your hatred racial trait.
576|If you are able to use your rend ability on the same turn that you also succeed at a bite attack, your rend deals an amount of additional damage equal to half your Strength modifier.
577|You can use speak with animals as a spell-like ability at will, but only to communicate with burrowing animals like gophers, moles, and the like. You can still use your gnome speak with animals ability once per day to speak with any animal, as usual.
578|You gain a +1 morale bonus on attack and damage rolls made against any creature that attacked you in the current combat.
579|If you have access to a gunsmith's kit, you can create and restore firearms, craft bullets, and mix black powder for all types of firearms. You do not need to make a Craft check to create firearms and ammunition or to restore firearms.
580|You count as a drow for any effects that relate to race. Furthermore, the spell-like abilities granted to you by your drow magic racial trait count as drow spell-like abilities for the purposes of any feat prerequisites.
581|When you take a full-attack action, each consecutive hit against the same opponent deals extra damage equal to the number of previous consecutive hits you have made against that opponent this turn. This damage is multiplied on a critical hit.
582|You gain a +1 bonus on attack rolls and combat maneuver checks made using a helmet. You receive a +2 bonus on saves against spells and special abilities that cause you to become staggered or stunned.
583|When wearing a helmet, you add +1 to your AC against critical hit confirmation rolls. When a critical hit is confirmed against you, as an immediate action, you can apply half of the damage from the attack to your helmet rather than yourself, applying hardness as normal. If the damage destroys your helmet, any leftover damage is applied to you. After using this feat, you are staggered until the end of your next turn. You may not use this feat if your helmet has the broken condition or the attack ignores armor bonuses to AC.
584|When wearing a helmet, you add +1 to your AC against critical hit confirmation rolls; this benefit stacks with Dented Helm. When you use Dented Helm to deflect a critical hit, you may apply all damage from the critical hit to your helmet before applying any damage to yourself. If you take no damage, any additional effects, such as critical feats or poison, are negated.
585|While inside an artificial structure, you can spend a free action to make a DC 15 Knowledge (engineering) check when you begin your bardic performance. Success on this check allows you to do one of the following.
586|You add haunted fey aspect (page 230) to your list of gnome magic spell-like abilities, and you can use this spell-like ability twice per day.
587|You gain one use of your gnome magic that is independent of your gnome magic spell-like abilities. When you wish to cast a gnome magic spell-like ability for which you have no daily uses remaining, you can expend this independent use to do so.  Further, while you are under the effect of haunted fey aspect (page 230), you can discharge that spell as a free action after you hit an opponent with a charge attack or score a critical hit against an opponent. If you do, that opponent becomes shaken for 1 round.
588|You gain another independent use of your gnome magic like that which Haunted Gnome Assault grants. Further, while you are under the effect of haunted fey aspect, you also have concealment (20% miss chance) against an opponent until that opponent deals you damage.
589|You gain one additional use per day of daylight. Choose one spell from the table below; by expending a use of daylight, you may use this spell as a spell-like ability. To select a spell, you must meet the minimum character level for its listing in the table. The save DC for this spell is Charisma-based.    Spell-Like AbilityMinimum Character Level Flare burst1st Wake of light3rd Searing light5th Wandering star motes7th Sunbeam (one beam only)9th  Special: You may take this feat multiple times. Each time you select it, you gain an additional use of daylight and may select another spell from the table.
590|A heightened spell has a higher spell level than normal (up to a maximum of 9th level). Unlike other metamagic feats, Heighten Spell actually increases the effective level of the spell that it modifies. All effects dependent on spell level (such as saving throw DCs and ability to penetrate a lesser globe of invulnerability) are calculated according to the heightened level. The heightened spell is as difficult to prepare and cast as a spell of its effective level.
591|Choose one spell which you have the ability to cast. You can cast that spell spontaneously by sacrificing a prepared spell or spell slot of equal or higher level. You can apply any metamagic feats you possess to this spell when you cast it. This increases the minimum level of the prepared spell or spell slot you must sacrifice in order to cast it but does not affect the casting time.  Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a different spell.
592|You gain a hero point. The maximum number of hero points you can have at any one time is increased to 5.
593|Whenever you gain a level, you gain 2 hero points instead of 1.
594|Whenever you spend a hero point to reroll a die roll or to grant yourself a bonus before a die roll is made, there is a chance that the hero point is not spent. Whenever you spend a hero point, roll a d20. If the result is greater than 15, the hero point is not spent. You cannot use this feat when you cheat death.
595|While possessing another creature, you can hide yourself from divinations and pass through wards such as magic circle against evil or the effects of a forbiddance spell. You must attempt a Will save against the spell (even if it doesn't normally allow a saving throw). If you succeed, the spell treats you as if you were your host (for instance, divinations would reveal only the host's alignment, and forbiddance keyed to the host's alignment wouldn't damage you). If your saving throw fails, the spell functions against you as normal; if the spell normally allows a save, your previous failure doesn't count as a failed save against the spell's normal effects.
596|Upon completion of your possession, you can alter up to 5 minutes of your host's memories as you see fit. This functions as the modify memory spell. Your host's awareness of the possession doesn't impact this ability, and if your control of the host lasted less than 5 minutes, you can cause it to forget the possession entirely. The host can attempt a Will save with a DC equal to that of the original possession effect to resist this alteration.
597|You can use detect thoughts at will as a spell-like ability against a host creature you possess. The host receives no saving throw, and the effect functions as if you had concentrated for 3 rounds. You can also use seek thoughts on your host as a spell-like ability once during the possession. The host can attempt a Will save with a DC equal to the DC of the original possession effect. If the host succeeds, the effect fails and the host become aware of the possession if it wasn't already.
598|While you are within 30 feet of at least two other hobgoblins, you gain a +1 morale bonus on saving throws.
599|An ally who also has this feat can deal damage to you in order to break an ongoing mind-affecting effect that allows a saving throw. The ally must cause at least 5 points of damage to you with an attack, spell, or other ability. You then reroll your saving throw, with a +1 bonus for every 5 additional points of damage the attack caused. If your save is successful, the mind-affecting effect ends. Only damage actually dealt counts for purposes of this feat; nonlethal damage and damage reduced or eliminated by damage reduction, resistances, and so on does not qualify.
600|When charging during the same round as an ally with this feat, you gain a +2 bonus on attack and damage rolls in addition to the normal bonus for charging. If you can make multiple attacks on a charge, this bonus only applies to the first attack.
601|You gain a +1 shield bonus to AC when lashed into a horn harness.  Special: A creature with this feat can take the Mounted Archery feat without possessing 1 rank in the Ride skill or the Mounted Combat feat.
602|Whenever you're lashed into a horn harness and you ready an action to make a melee attack against the target of a charge made by the creature you're lashed to, you gain the attack bonus for charging and your attack deals double damage (or triple damage with a lance). This benefit does not stack with the benefit of Spirited Charge.
603|Use your character level to determine your effective druid level for determining the powers and abilities of your mount.  Normal: You use your cavalier level to determine your effective druid level for determining the powers and abilities of your mount.
604|A creature with this feat can halt its movement while flying, allowing it to hover without needing to make a Fly skill check.  If a creature of size Large or larger with this feat hovers within 20 feet of the ground in an area with lots of loose debris, the draft from its wings creates a hemispherical cloud with a radius of 60 feet. The winds generated can snuff torches, small campfires, exposed lanterns, and other small, open flames of non-magical origin. Clear vision within the cloud is limited to 10 feet. Creatures have concealment at 15 to 20 feet (20% miss chance). At 25 feet or more, creatures have total concealment (50% miss chance, and opponents cannot use sight to locate the creature).  Normal: Without this feat, a creature must make a Fly skill check to hover and the creature does not create a cloud of debris while hovering.
605|You receive 1 bonus skill rank. Whenever you gain another Hit Die, you gain an additional skill rank. You cannot gain more than four skill ranks in this way.  Special: You can only take this feat at 1st level. If you take this feat, you cannot take the Elven Spirit feat.
606|If you have the animal companion class feature, pick one of the following types of animal companions that this feat affects: bird, dog, small cat, or horse. If you have the divine bond (mount) or mount class feature, this feat always affects horses.  You gain a +2 bonus on Handle Animal and Knowledge (nature) checks with creatures of that type of animal. Furthermore, you are treated as one level higher when determining the abilities of your animal companion or mount, as long as it is of the chosen type.
607|You may use hydraulic push to attempt a bull rush, disarm, dirty trick (blind or dazzle, see ), or trip combat maneuver. Each time you use hydraulic push, you must decide which of the allowed combat maneuvers you want to perform. You may use this feat with your hydraulic push racial spell-like ability, your class-granted use of hydraulic push, or any hydraulic push spells you cast, but not with magic items or other external sources that use that spell.  Normal: Hydraulic push can only be used to make a bull rush combat maneuver.
608|You may implant a bomb in a willing or helpless creature (a mindless creature under your control, such as a zombie, counts as willing for this purpose). This takes 1 hour and expends 1 use of your bomb ability for the day. When the implanted creature dies or is destroyed, the bomb detonates in the creature's square as if it were a delayed bomb set by you (though you can set the bomb's damage to less than your normal bomb damage). You can use any bomb-affecting discoveries on this implanted bomb (acid bomb, frost bomb, smoke bomb, and so on) as normal. The bomb automatically detonates 24 hours after you implant it in the creature.  If you expend 150 gp worth of alchemical reagents per die of the bomb's damage (for example, 750 gp for a 5d6 bomb), the bomb does not automatically detonate after 24 hours, and only detonates if the creature dies or is destroyed (24 hours after implantation, this bomb no longer counts toward your daily total).  Implanting a bomb is as invasive as using the Heal skill to treat deadly wounds and leaves surgical scars unless the creature is healed by magic or abilities such as regeneration or fast healing. Some creatures (such as oozes, elementals, and creatures with the incorporeal quality) cannot have bombs implanted in them. Removing an implanted bomb requires a Heal check to treat deadly wounds, followed by a dispel magic spell or Disable Device check to neutralize the bomb (DC = 11 + alchemist's caster level).
609|Select one of your implement schools. When you spend generic focus to activate focus powers with one of that school's implements, the focus powers cost their listed amount of mental focus.  Normal: Any focus power activated with generic focus costs twice as much focus to use and maintain.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Each time, you must select a different implement school.
610|Add 2 to the DC of saving throws made to resist the effects of your channel energy ability.
611|Non-mythic creatures that take damage from your channel energy must roll their saving throws twice and take the lower result.
612|When counterspelling, you may use a spell of the same school that is one or more spell levels higher than the target spell.  Normal: Without this feat, you may counter a spell only with the same spell or with a spell specifically designated as countering the target spell.
613|When counterspelling, you can use a spell of the same school that is the same or higher spell level as the target spell.
614|Whenever you successfully counter a spell, it returns back to its caster. This works exactly like the spell turning spell.
615|When using the weapon you selected, your threat range is doubled.  Special: You can gain Improved Critical multiple times. The effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new type of weapon.  This effect doesn't stack with any other effect that expands the threat range of a weapon.
616|Your critical multiplier with your chosen weapon is increased by 1 (to a maximum of ×6).  Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. The effects do not stack. Each time you take this feat, it applies to a different non-mythic Improved Critical feat.
617|When an ally who also has this feat confirms a critical hit against an opponent that you also threaten, you can make an attack of opportunity against that opponent.
618|The range of your dirge of doom ability is extended to 60 feet. Additionally, if a creature is shaken from another effect, the effect of your dirge of doom is changed to frightened for that specific creature. This benefit cannot cause a creature to become panicked, even if a target is already frightened from another effect. Once affected by this feat, a creature cannot be affected by it again for 24 hours.  Normal: The range of dirge of doom is 30 feet. A creature that is already shaken cannot become frightened by dirge of doom.
619|The effect of your dirge of doom lingers with a target for 2 rounds after the creature leaves the dirge's area of effect. If you use your dirge on a creature that is shaken, it becomes frightened. If you use it on a creature that is frightened, it becomes panicked. Once affected by this feat, a creature cannot be affected by it again for 24 hours.  Normal: Fear effects on a creature end immediately once it leaves the area of dirge of doom. A fear effect cannot be made more extreme by dirge of doom and can be changed only to the frightened condition by the Improved Dirge of Doom feat.
620|When choosing a familiar, the creatures listed below are also available to you. You may choose a familiar with an alignment up to one step away on each alignment axis (lawful through chaotic, good through evil). FamiliarAlignmentArcane Spellcaster Level Celestial hawk1Neutral good3rd Dire ratNeutral3rd Fiendish viper2Neutral evil3rd Elemental, Small (any type)Neutral5th StirgeNeutral5th Homunculus3Any7th ImpLawful evil7th Mephit (any type)Neutral7th PseudodragonNeutral good7th QuasitChaotic evil7th 1 Or other celestial animal from the standard familiar list. 2 Or other fiendish animal from the standard familiar list. 3 The master must first create the homunculus.  Improved familiars otherwise use the rules for regular familiars, with two exceptions: if the creature's type is something other than animal, its type does not change; and improved familiars do not gain the ability to speak with other creatures of their kind (although many of them already have the ability to communicate).
621|For every 3 tiers you possess, your familiar gains a +2 bonus to an ability score of your choice. These bonuses stack. Your familiar adds your tier to its natural armor bonus and to its spell resistance (if it has spell resistance).
622|You get a +4 bonus on initiative checks.
623|The bonus on initiative checks granted by Improved Initiative increases by an amount equal to your tier. This bonus stacks with the bonus from Improved Initiative. In addition, instead of rolling initiative, you can expend one use of mythic power to treat your roll as a natural 20.
624|Your bonus to confirm critical hits against opponents larger than yourself improves to +2. Furthermore, once per day, after you fail to hit with a critical hit confirmation roll, you can reroll the confirmation roll, but must take the new result even if it is worse.
625|You gain a sacred bonus on all skill checks to identify the abilities and weaknesses of creatures equal to 1/2 your level in classes that grant you the monster lore class feature.
626|The creature's natural armor bonus increases by +1.  Special: A creature can gain this feat multiple times. Each time the creature takes the feat, its natural armor bonus increases by another point.
627|Choose one of the creature's natural attack forms (not an unarmed strike). The damage for this natural attack increases by one step on the following list, as if the creature's size had increased by one category. Damage dice increase as follows: 1d2, 1d3, 1d4, 1d6, 1d8, 2d6, 3d6, 4d6, 6d6, 8d6, 12d6.  A weapon or attack that deals 1d10 points of damage increases as follows: 1d10, 2d8, 3d8, 4d8, 6d8, 8d8, 12d8.  Special: This feat can be taken multiple times. Each time it is taken, it applies to a different natural attack.
628|Any non-instantaneous spell (but not any spell-like ability) you cast on yourself can also affect a creature bonded to you (such as an animal companion, eidolon, familiar, or special mount). The creature must be within 5 feet of you at the time of casting to receive the benefit. The spell's duration is halved between you and your bonded creature (for example, a spell with a duration of 1 hour has a duration of 30 minutes for both you and your bonded creature).  If the spell or effect has a duration other than instantaneous, it stops affecting the creature if it moves farther than 5 feet away from you. It does not affect the creature again if it returns before the duration expires.  You may share spells in this fashion even if the spells normally do not affect creatures of that type.  This feat only applies to animal companions, eidolons, familiars, or special mounts gained through a class feature.
629|When you are adjacent to or sharing a square with your companion creature and that companion creature has this feat, you can cast a spell on yourself and divide the duration evenly between yourself and the companion creature. You can use this feat only on spells with a duration of at least 2 rounds. For example, you could cast bull's strength on yourself, and instead of the spell lasting 1 minute per level on yourself, it lasts 5 rounds per level on yourself and 5 rounds per level on your companion.  Once the spell is cast, you and the companion creature can move farther apart without ending the effect.
630|You receive a +4 bonus on Perception checks to notice unusual stonework. This bonus replaces the stonecunning ability's normal bonus on Perception checks.
631|You gain stone tell as a spell-like ability usable once per day with a caster level equal to twice your tier.
632|You gain tremorsense to a range of 10 feet.
633|You are considered to be armed even when unarmed—you do not provoke attacks of opportunity when you attack foes while unarmed. Your unarmed strikes can deal lethal or nonlethal damage, at your choice.  Normal: Without this feat, you are considered unarmed when attacking with an unarmed strike, and you can deal only nonlethal damage with such an attack.
634|As a swift action, you can apply one dose of contact or injury poison to two body parts that you use for unarmed strikes. You must still protect yourself against exposure to contact poisons you apply in this way.  Normal: Applying poison to a weapon or single piece of ammunition is a standard action.
635|When you use Adder Strike, you can instead poison up to two blowgun darts that you can then use to strike your opponent in melee. (Drawing such darts is a free action.) While holding these darts, you can spend a standard action to attack with one or a full-attack action to attack with both. Such attacks are considered melee touch attacks that deal 1d2 damage plus any bonuses you gain on your normal unarmed strike damage, and they deliver the poison. You can instead throw such darts as if they were shuriken, making your ranged attack rolls against the target's AC.  Normal: Applying poison to a weapon or single piece of ammunition is a standard action.
636|Befuddling Strike forces a foe damaged by your unarmed attack to attempt a Fortitude saving throw (DC = 10 + 1/2 your character level + your Wisdom modifier), in addition to dealing damage normally. You must declare that you are using this feat before you make your attack roll—thus, a failed attack roll ruins the attempt. An opponent who fails this saving throw is confused for 1d4 rounds. You can attempt to use Befuddling Strike once per day for every 4 character levels you have, but you can use it no more than once per round. Constructs, incorporeal creatures, mindless creatures, plants, undead, and creatures that are immune to critical hits cannot be affected by this ability.
637|You can deal bludgeoning damage or slashing damage with your unarmed strikes—changing damage type is a free action. While using this style, once per round when you hit a single foe with two or more unarmed strikes, you can tear flesh. When you do, you deal 2d6 extra points of damage with the attack.
638|You add piercing damage to the damage types you can deal with your unarmed strikes. Further, you gain a +2 bonus on Intimidate checks to demoralize opponents. While using Boar Style, whenever you tear an opponent's flesh, you can spend a free action to make an Intimidate check to demoralize that opponent.
639|You can make an Intimidate check to demoralize an opponent as a move action. While using Boar Style, whenever you tear an opponent's flesh, once per round at the start of that opponent's turn he takes 1d6 bleed damage. The bleed damage dealt while using Boar Style persist even if you later switch to a different style.
640|You can switch your style as a free action. At the start of combat, pick one of your styles. You start the combat in that style, even in the surprise round.  Normal: It takes a swift action to begin or switch your styles.
641|Once per round, when you are fighting unarmed with both hands free and an opponent misses you with a melee attack, the opponent provokes an attack of opportunity from you. You must use an unarmed strike for this attack of opportunity.
642|You take only a –2 penalty on attack rolls for fighting defensively. While using this style and fighting defensively or using the total defense action, you gain an additional +1 dodge bonus to your Armor Class.
643|When fighting defensively with at least one hand free, you gain a +4 dodge bonus to AC against melee attacks. If you using the total defense action instead, you can deflect one melee attack that would normally hit you. An attack so deflected deals no damage and has no other effect (instead treat it as a miss). You do not expend an action when using this feat, but you must be aware of the attack and not flat-footed.
644|You take only a Ð1 penalty on attack rolls for fighting defensively. Whenever you deflect an opponent's attack using Crane Wing or lose the dodge bonus from Crane Wing because an attack missed you by 4 or less, you can make an attack of opportunity against the attacker after the attack misses.
645|When you attack with an unarmed strike and hit a creature that you can harm with your lay on hands or touch of corruption feature, you can use a swift action to expend a daily use of that feature to deal its normal damage as if you had hit with the feature's normal touch attack. This extra damage is not multiplied if you scored a critical hit.
646|You must declare that you are using this feat before you make your attack roll (thus, a failed attack roll ruins the attempt). Dazing Fist forces a foe damaged by your unarmed attack to attempt a Fortitude saving throw (DC = 10 + 1/2 your character level + your Wisdom modifier), in addition to dealing damage normally. A foe who fails this saving throw is dazed for 1 round, until just before your next turn. You can attempt to use Dazing Fist once per day for every 4 character levels you have, but no more than once per round. Constructs, incorporeal creatures, plants, undead, and creatures that are immune to critical hits cannot be affected by this ability.
647|You must have at least one hand free (holding nothing) to use this feat. Once per round when you would normally be hit with an attack from a ranged weapon, you may deflect it so that you take no damage from it. You must be aware of the attack and not flat-footed. Attempting to deflect a ranged attack doesn't count as an action. Unusually massive ranged weapons (such as boulders or ballista bolts) and ranged attacks generated by natural attacks or spell effects can't be deflected.
648|When using Deflect Arrows, you can deflect an additional number of ranged attacks per round equal to half your tier. You can expend one use of mythic power as an immediate action to deflect a single ray from a ray spell or effect targeting you.
649|When using the Deflect Arrows feat you may choose to catch the weapon instead of just deflecting it. Thrown weapons can immediately be thrown back as an attack against the original attacker (even though it isn't your turn) or kept for later use.  You must have at least one hand free (holding nothing) to use this feat.
650|When you use Snatch Arrows to catch a thrown weapon that can also be used as a melee weapon, you can make a melee attack with it as an immediate action against a foe within the weapon's melee reach. You can expend one use of mythic power to make this attack without spending an immediate action.
651|If you have dispel magic prepared or can cast it spontaneously, you can cast it as a swift action after hitting an opponent with an unarmed strike. Treat this as a targeted dispel against the opponent you hit.
652|When you gain this feat, choose one domain-granted power that you can use to affect no more than one opponent. If you make a successful unarmed strike against an opponent, in addition to dealing your unarmed strike damage, you can use a swift action to deliver the effects of the chosen granted power to that opponent. Doing so provokes no attacks of opportunity.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you take it, you apply it to a different qualifying domain power.
653|While using this style, you gain a +2 bonus on saving throws against sleep effects, paralysis effects, and stunning effects. You ignore difficult terrain when you charge, run, or withdraw. You can also charge through squares that contain allies. Further, you can add 1-1/2 times your Strength bonus on the damage roll for your first unarmed strike on a given round.  Normal: You cannot charge or run through difficult terrain, and you cannot charge through a square that contains an ally. With an unarmed strike, you usually add your Strength bonus on damage rolls.
654|While using Dragon Style, increase your Strength bonus on unarmed strike damage rolls by an additional one-half your Strength bonus, to a total of double your Strength bonus on the first attack and 1–½ times your Strength bonus on other attacks. When you score a critical hit or a successful Stunning Fist attempt against an opponent while using this style, that opponent is also shaken for a number of rounds equal to 1d4 + your Strength bonus.  Special: Taking this feat allows you to qualify for the Elemental Fist feat (Advanced Player's Guide 158) even if you do not meet that feat's prerequisites. If you do not meet that feat's prerequisites, you must choose one of the damage types that feat offers, and you can use only that damage type with your Elemental Fist attacks until you meet the feat's normal prerequisites. A monk with this feat can use Elemental Fist as if he were a monk of the four winds (Advanced Player's Guide 112).
655|You gain one additional Stunning Fist attempt per day. While using Dragon Style, as a standard action you can expend two Stunning Fist attempts to unleash a concussive roar in a 15-foot cone. Creatures caught in the cone take your unarmed strike damage and become shaken for 1d4 rounds. A successful Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 your character level + your Wis modifier) reduces the damage by half and prevents a target from being shaken.  Special: If you have the Elemental Fist feat (Advanced Player's Guide 158), you can expend a daily use of that feat to deal your Elemental Fist damage to those caught in the cone. This damage is not halved even on a save.
656|You must declare that you are using this feat before you make your attack roll (thus, a failed attack roll ruins the attempt). Draining Strike forces a foe that was damaged by your unarmed attack to attempt a Fortitude saving throw (DC = 10 + 1/2 your character level + your Wisdom modifier), in addition to dealing damage normally. An opponent who fails this saving throw is fatigued for 1 minute or until the foe is subject to any spell or effect that heals hit point damage. If you have a base attack bonus of +14 or higher, the target is exhausted for the same duration instead. You can attempt to use Draining Strike once per day for every 4 character levels you have, but you can use it no more than once per round. Constructs, incorporeal creatures, plants, undead, and creatures that are immune to critical hits cannot be affected by this ability.
657|While using this style, your defensive training dodge bonus to AC increases to +6. Further, against creatures of the giant subtype, you can add your Wisdom bonus on your unarmed strike damage rolls.
658|You can trip a creature of the giant subtype of up to Huge size. While using Earth Child Style, you add your Wisdom bonus on combat maneuver checks made to trip a creature of the giant subtype, as well as on attack rolls to confirm a critical hit against such a creature.  Normal: You can trip only those opponents that are one size category larger than you.
659|You can trip a creature of the giant subtype no matter its size. While you are using Earth Child Style, when a prone creature of the giant subtype stands up and provokes an attack of opportunity from you, if you make an unarmed strike, you can declare you are making a Stunning Fist attempt after the attack hits. You gain a +4 bonus to the DC of any Stunning Fist effect you deliver in this way.  Normal: You can only trip opponents who are one size category larger than you.
660|When you use Elemental Strike pick one of the following energy types: acid, cold, electricity, or fire. On a successful hit, the attack deals damage normally plus 1d6 points of damage of the chosen type. You must declare that you are using this feat before you make your attack roll (thus a failed attack roll ruins the attempt). You may attempt an elemental fist attack once per day for every four levels you have attained (see Special), and no more than once per round.  Special: A monk of the four winds receives Elemental Fist as a bonus feat at 1st level, even if he does not meet the prerequisites. A monk may attempt an Elemental Fist attack a number of times per day equal to his monk level, plus one more time per day for every four levels he has in classes other than monk.
661|You gain one additional Elemental Fist (Advanced Player's Guide 158) attempt per day. While you are in this style you must use Elemental Fist to deal electricity damage and you gain a bonus on electricity damage rolls equal to your Wisdom bonus. Further, while you are using this style and have remaining Elemental Fist attempts, you also gain a +2 dodge bonus to Armor Class against attacks of opportunity. A condition that makes you lose your Dexterity bonus to AC also makes you lose this dodge bonus.
662|You gain one additional Elemental Fist (Advanced Player's Guide 158) attempt per day. While using Djinni Style, you gain electricity resistance equal to your base attack bonus or monk level, whichever is higher. While denied your Dexterity bonus to AC you are also denied this resistance. Creatures that take electricity damage from your Elemental Fist attack must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 your character level + your Wis modifier) or be deafened for 1d4 rounds. Those who take damage from your Djinni Spin are deafened, even on a successful saving throw.
663|While using Djinni Style, as a standard action you can spend two Elemental Fist (Advanced Player's Guide 158) attempts to surround yourself with a whirlwind of electrified air. Creatures adjacent to you take your unarmed strike damage plus the electricity damage from your Elemental Fist and are deafened for 1d4 rounds. A successful Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 your character level + your Wis modifier) reduces the damage by half and prevents a target from being deafened.
664|You gain one additional Elemental Fist (Advanced Player's Guide 158) attempt per day. While using this style and Elemental Fist to deal fire damage, you gain a bonus on fire damage rolls equal to your Wisdom bonus. Further, if your Elemental Fist melee attack misses while you are using it to deal fire damage, you still deal 1d6 points of fire damage to your target.
665|You gain one additional Elemental Fist (Advanced Player's Guide 158) attempt per day. While using Efreeti Style, you gain fire resistance equal to your base attack bonus or your monk level plus any base attack bonus gained from levels in classes other than monk, whichever is higher. While denied your Dexterity bonus to AC you are also denied this resistance. Creatures that take fire damage from your Elemental Fist attack must succeed at a Reflex save (DC 10 + 1/2 your character level + your Wis modifier) or catch on fire.
666|While using Efreeti Style, as a standard action, you can spend two Elemental Fist (Advanced Player's Guide 158) attempts to unleash a 15-foot cone-shaped burst of flame. Creatures caught in the cone take your unarmed strike damage plus the fire damage from your Elemental Fist and catch on fire. A successful Reflex save (DC 10 + 1/2 your character level + your Wis modifier) reduces the damage by half and prevents a target from catching on fire.
667|The extra energy damage dealt by Elemental Fist increases to 1d8 points, and you gain additional uses of Elemental Fist per day equal to your tier. You can expend one use of mythic power as an immediate action to add the extra damage from your Elemental Fist to all of the unarmed strikes you make until the beginning of your next turn. This counts as only one use of Elemental Fist, regardless of the number of attacks that you make in this fashion.
668|You gain one additional Elemental Fist (Advanced Player's Guide 158) attempt per day. While using this style and Elemental Fist to deal cold damage, you gain a bonus on cold damage rolls equal to your Wisdom modifier, and your reach with your unarmed strike increases by 5 feet.
669|You gain one additional Elemental Fist (Advanced Player's Guide 158) attempt per day. While using Marid Style, you gain cold resistance equal to your base attack bonus, or monk level plus base attack bonus gained from levels in classes other than monk, whichever is higher. While denied your Dexterity bonus to AC you are also denied this resistance. Creatures that take cold damage from your Elemental Fist attack must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 your character level + your Wis modifier) or become entangled in ice for 1d4 rounds. The ice has hit points equal to three times your base attack bonus or monk level, whichever is higher, and a break DC of 15 + your base attack bonus or monk level, whichever is higher. Destroying or breaking the ice ends the entangled condition.
670|While using Marid Style, as a standard action, you can spend two Elemental Fist (Advanced Player's Guide 158) attempts to unleash a 30-foot line of frigid water. Creatures caught in the line take your unarmed strike damage plus the cold damage from your Elemental Fist attack and are entangled in ice as per the Marid Spirit feat. A successful Reflex save (DC 10 + 1/2 your character level + your Wis modifier) reduces the damage by half and prevents a target from becoming entangled.
671|You gain one additional Elemental Fist (Advanced Player's Guide 158) attempt per day. While using the Shaitan Style and Elemental Fist feats to deal acid damage, you gain a bonus on acid damage rolls equal to your Wisdom bonus. Further, if your Elemental Fist melee attack misses while you are using it to deal acid damage, you still deal 1d6 points of acid damage to your target.
672|You gain one additional Elemental Fist (Advanced Player's Guide 158) attempt per day. While using the Shaitan Style feat, you gain acid resistance equal to your base attack bonus, or your monk level plus BAB gained from levels in classes other than monk, whichever is higher. While denied your Dexterity bonus to AC you are also denied this resistance. Creatures that take acid damage from your Elemental Fist attack must succeed at a Reflex save (DC 10 + 1/2 your character level + your Wis modifier) or be staggered for 1 round.
673|While using the Shaitan Style feat, as a standard action, you can spend two Elemental Fist (Advanced Player's Guide 158) attempts to unleash a 20-foot column of acid that has a 5-foot radius and erupts from a point of origin within 30 feet of you. Creatures caught in the column take your unarmed strike damage plus the acid damage from your Elemental Fist and are staggered for 1 round. A successful Reflex save (DC 10 + 1/2 your character level + your Wis modifier) reduces the damage by half and prevents a target from being staggered.
674|When you successfully use your elusive target class feature to avoid taking damage, you can spend an immediate action and an additional point from your ki pool to redirect that attack back at your attacker or toward any other opponent adjacent to you and your attacker. This attack uses the same attack roll as the original attack, but it targets the opponent you choose.
675|When you gain this feat, choose one hex that you can use to affect no more than one opponent. If you make a successful unarmed strike against an opponent, in addition to dealing your unarmed strike damage, you can use a swift action to deliver the effects of the chosen hex to that opponent. Doing so does not provoke attacks of opportunity.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you take it, you apply it to a different qualifying hex.
676|You do not provoke an attack of opportunity when performing a grapple combat maneuver. In addition, you receive a +2 bonus on checks made to grapple a foe. You also receive a +2 bonus to your Combat Maneuver Defense whenever an opponent tries to grapple you.  Normal: You provoke an attack of opportunity when performing a grapple combat maneuver.
677|As an immediate action while you are grappling an adjacent creature, you can make a grapple combat maneuver check against that creature to gain cover against a single attack. If you are successful and the attack misses you, that attack targets the creature you used as cover, using the same attack roll. You cannot use this feat against a creature grappling you, and the cover you gain ends after the attack you gained cover against is resolved.
678|When a flat-footed creature is unaware of your presence and you successfully grapple it, you can attempt a second grapple combat maneuver check to pin the creature as a free action. If you have the Chokehold feat, you can instead use this second combat maneuver check to initiate a chokehold.
679|While you have an opponent up to one size category larger than you grappled, you can attempt a grapple combat maneuver with a –5 penalty on the check. If you succeed, you have pinned your opponent and hold the opponent in a chokehold. When you maintain the grapple, you also maintain the chokehold. A creature in a chokehold cannot breathe or speak, and thus cannot cast spells that have a verbal component. An opponent you have in a chokehold has to hold his breath or begin suffocating. Any creature that does not breathe, is immune to bleed damage, or is immune to critical hits is immune to the effects of your chokehold. When the grapple is ended, so is the chokehold.
680|If you start your turn grappling another creature at least two size categories smaller than you, you can put the grappled creature in your mouth as a move action and attempt another grapple combat maneuver check (as though attempting to pin the opponent). If you succeed, you swallow the opponent as if you had the swallow whole special ability.
681|When you use this style, you do not take a –4 penalty on combat maneuver checks to grapple a foe by using only one hand. Additionally, you do not lose your Dexterity bonus to AC while pinning an opponent.  Normal: Without two free hands, you take a –4 penalty on the combat maneuver roll to grapple a foe. While pinning a foe, you lose your Dexterity bonus to AC.
682|When you are using Grabbing Style, if you use the move grapple action, you can move both yourself and a single target that you're grappling your full speed instead of half your speed. After you have done so, you can use a move action to move yourself and the target of your grapple half your speed without needing to attempt an additional combat maneuver check. You cannot use this feat if you are grappling two targets.
683|When you are grabbing two opponents while using Grabbing Style, you can use your grapple to move or damage both opponents you are grappling, instead of just one.
684|You receive a +2 bonus on checks made to grapple a foe. This bonus stacks with the bonus granted by Improved Grapple. Once you have grappled a creature, maintaining the grapple is a move action. This feat allows you to make two grapple checks each round (to move, harm, or pin your opponent), but you are not required to make two checks. You only need to succeed at one of these checks to maintain the grapple.  Normal: Maintaining a grapple is a standard action.
685|While you have an opponent pinned, when you succeed at a grapple combat maneuver check to deal an opponent nonlethal damage using an unarmed strike or a light or one-handed weapon, double your damage result. Any creature that is immune to critical hits is immune to the effects of this feat.
686|While you have an opponent pinned, when you succeed at a grapple combat maneuver check to deal an opponent damage using an unarmed strike or a light or one-handed weapon, that opponent also takes bleed damage equal to your unarmed strike or weapon damage dice. Any creature that is immune to critical hits is immune to the effects of this feat.
687|Whenever you use Greater Grapple to successfully maintain a grapple as a move action, you can then spend a swift action to make a grapple combat maneuver check at a –5 penalty.
688|You gain a bonus equal to half your tier on checks to grapple, and to your CMD when an opponent tries to grapple you. These bonuses stack with those granted by Improved Grapple.  Furthermore, you can make an attack of opportunity against any creature that attempts to grapple you, unless it also has this feat.
689|Your unarmed strike damage increases by one step when you're grappling creatures smaller than you. You gain the constrict monster special ability, dealing an amount of damage equal to either the slam damage for a creature of your size or your unarmed strike damage, whichever is greater.
690|Whenever you successfully maintain a grapple and choose to deal damage, you can spend a swift action to deal your sneak attack damage to the creature you are grappling.
691|You can add half your tier to your damage with unarmed strikes. As a swift action, you can expend one use of mythic power to overcome the hardness of objects with your unarmed strikes. This effect last for a number of rounds equal to your tier. If an object's hardness is greater than 15, you don't ignore any of its hardness.
692|When you hit a target with an unarmed strike and you have hit that target with an unarmed strike previously that round, you deal an extra 1d6 points of damage to that target.
693|Each time you hit with an unarmed strike while using Jabbing Style, you can move 5 feet without provoking an attack of opportunity, as long as you move to a space adjacent to the opponent you hit with the unarmed strike. If you use this feat, you cannot take a 5-foot step during your next turn.
694|While you use Jabbing Style, the extra damage you deal when you hit a single target with two unarmed strikes increases to 2d6, and the extra damage when you hit a single target with three or more unarmed strikes increases to 4d6.
695|While using this style, you take only a –1 penalty to AC for charging. Further, opponents that flank you gain only a +1 bonus on attack rolls against you.
696|While you are using the Janni Style feat, whenever you make an unarmed attack and hit an opponent, you gain a +4 bonus on checks made to bull rush or trip that opponent, as long as the combat maneuver is your next attack by the end of your turn. You do not provoke an attack of opportunity from the target of the maneuver.
697|While using Janni Style, you are always considered to have a running start when jumping. Further, if you jump as part of a charge and make an unarmed strike against the designated opponent, a hit allows you to roll the unarmed strike's damage dice twice and add the results together before adding modifiers (such as from Strength) or extra dice (such as precision-based damage or dice from weapon abilities). The extra damage dice are not multiplied on a successful critical hit.
698|While using this style, you can spend a swift action to make a Knowledge check to identify a single creature (DC 15 + the creature's CR for this purpose). If you succeed at the check, while using this style, you gain a +2 bonus on saving throws against that creature's attacks, as well as a +2 dodge bonus to AC against that creature's attacks of opportunity. These bonuses last for as long as you use this style. If you cease combat with the creature during this time and resume it later, you can attempt the check again.
699|You gain a +2 insight bonus on Knowledge checks made to identify creatures, including the one Kirin Style allows. While using Kirin Style against a creature you have identified using that feat, as a swift action after you have hit a creature with a melee or ranged attack, you can add twice your Intelligence modifier in damage (minimum 2).
700|Whenever you make a Knowledge check to identify a creature, even when using Kirin Style, you can take 10 even if stress and distractions would normally prevent you from doing so. While using Kirin Style against a creature you have identified using that feat, if the creature ends its turn within your threatened area, you can spend a use of your attacks of opportunity that round to move up to 5 feet times your Intelligence modifier (minimum 1). You must end your move in a square threatened by the creature. This move does not provoke attacks of opportunity.
701|When you use your unarmed strike to deal nonlethal damage and sneak attack damage to an opponent denied his Dexterity bonus to AC, you gain a +1 bonus on the damage roll per each sneak attack damage die you roll.
702|When you use your unarmed strike to deal nonlethal damage and sneak attack damage to an opponent, roll d8s for each sneak attack die instead of d6s.
703|Add half the levels you have in classes other than monk to your monk level to determine your effective monk level for your base unarmed strike damage. This feat does not make levels in classes other than monk count toward any other monk class features.
704|Add half the levels you have in classes other than monk to your monk level to determine your effective monk level for your AC bonus. As a free action, you can expend one use of mythic power to add half your tier to your effective monk level to determine your base unarmed strike damage and AC bonus until the start of your next turn.
705|You add your Wisdom bonus on Acrobatics checks. While using this style, you take no penalty on melee attack rolls or to AC while prone. Further, you can crawl and stand up from lying prone without provoking attacks of opportunity, and you can stand up as a swift action if you succeed at a DC 20 Acrobatics check.  Normal: You take a –4 penalty on attack rolls and AC against melee attacks while prone. Standing up is a standard action that provokes attacks of opportunity.
706|While using Monkey Style, you gain a Wisdom bonus on Climb checks. You can also can climb and crawl at half your speed; you can take a 5-foot step by jumping, crawling, or climbing; and you retain your Dexterity bonus to AC while climbing. Further, while using Monkey Style, when you use your unarmed strike to hit an opponent twice or more on your turn, you can spend a swift action to take a 5-foot step even if you have moved this round.  Normal: You climb at one-quarter your speed, and you lose your Dexterity bonus to AC while doing so. A 5-foot step is made using your normal movement modes, and you can take one only if you have not otherwise moved this round.
707|While using Monkey Style, if you successfully deliver a Stunning Fist attempt, in addition to the normal effect of Stunning Fist, you can spend a free action to enter a square adjacent to you that is within your opponent's space. This movement does not provoke attacks of opportunity. While you are in your opponent's space, you gain a +4 dodge bonus to AC and a +4 bonus on melee attack rolls against that opponent. If otherwise unhindered, the opponent can move away from you, but if he does, he provokes an attack of opportunity from you even if his choice of movement does not normally do so.  Normal: You cannot enter an opponent's space.
708|While fighting within an area of magical darkness, you gain a +2 bonus on damage rolls with unarmed strikes, or a +4 bonus against opponents that are shaken, frightened, or panicked. You also gain a +2 morale bonus on Acrobatics and Intimidate checks.
709|By spending a full-round action to cast darkness, you can also make Intimidate checks to demoralize all foes in the spell's initial area.  Special: This feat counts as Dazzling Display for purposes of qualifying for Deadly Stroke and Shatter Defenses.
710|While a faerie fire you have cast (not one cast from a spell completion or spell trigger item) outlines an opponent, the DC for that opponent to resist your Stunning Fist attempts increases by +2. If you hit an opponent with a Stunning Fist attempt, and that opponent fails her saving throw, you can render the target shaken for 1d2 rounds plus 1 round for every 5 by which the opponent failed her save.
711|While using this style, when an opponent makes an attack of opportunity against you for moving through a threatened square, you can spend a swift action to make a retaliatory unarmed strike attack against that opponent. Your attack is resolved after the triggering attack of opportunity.
712|While using Panther Style, you can spend a free action, instead of spending a swift action, to make a retaliatory unarmed strike. You can make a number of retaliatory unarmed strikes on your turn equal to your Wisdom modifier.
713|While using Panther Style, your retaliatory unarmed strikes are resolved before the triggering attacks. If your retaliatory unarmed strike deals damage to an opponent, that opponent takes a –2 penalty on attack and damage rolls with the triggering attack of opportunity.
714|You must declare that you are using this feat before you make your attack roll (thus, a failed attack roll ruins the attempt). Paralyzing Strike forces a foe damaged by your unarmed attack to attempt a Fortitude saving throw (DC = 10 + 1/2 your character level + your Wisdom modifier), in addition to dealing damage normally. An opponent who fails this saving throw is paralyzed for 1 round, until just before your next turn. You can attempt to use Paralyzing Strike once per day for every 4 character levels you have, but no more than once per round. Constructs, incorporeal creatures, plants, undead, and creatures that are immune to critical hits cannot be affected by this ability.
715|You must declare that you are using this feat before you make your attack roll (thus a failed attack roll ruins the attempt). You must use one of the following weapons to make the attack: kama, nunchaku, quarterstaff, sai, and siangham. You can roll your attack roll twice and take the higher result. If one of these rolls is a critical threat, the other roll is used as your confirmation roll (your choice if they are both critical threats). You may attempt a perfect attack once per day for every four levels you have attained (but see Special), and no more than once per round.  Special: A weapon master monk or zen archer monk receives Perfect Strike as a bonus feat at 1st level, even if he does not meet the prerequisites. A monk may attempt an perfect strike attack a number of times per day equal to his monk level, plus one more time per day for every four levels he has in classes other than monk.
716|Whenever you use a full-attack action or flurry of blows to make multiple attacks against a single opponent with unarmed strikes, total the damage from all hits before applying damage reduction. This ability works only with unarmed strikes, no matter what other abilities you might possess.
717|When you use Pummeling Style to make an entire full attack or flurry of blows against a single target, if you hit with any of your attacks, you can attempt a reposition or trip combat maneuver check as a free action.
718|You can charge and make a full attack or flurry of blows at the end of your charge as part of the charge action. You can use Pummeling Charge in this way only if all of your attacks qualify for using Pummeling Style against a single target.  Normal: You cannot make a full attack on a charge.
719|You must declare that you are using this feat before you make your attack roll (thus a failed attack roll ruins the attempt). On a successful hit, the attack deals damage normally and you can choose to push your target 5 feet or attempt to knock them prone. If you decide to push the target, it is moved 5 feet directly away from you. This movement does not provoke attacks of opportunity, and the target must end this move in a safe space it can stand in. If you decide to attempt to knock the target prone, the target receives a Fortitude saving throw with a DC of 10 + 1/2 your character level + your Wisdom modifier to avoid the effect. You may attempt a punishing kick attack once per day for every four levels you have attained (but see Special), and no more than once per round.  Special: A hungry ghost monk receives Punishing Kick as a bonus feat at 1st level, even if he does not meet the prerequisites. A monk may attempt a punishing kick attack a number of times per day equal to his monk level, plus one more time per day for every four levels he has in classes other than monk.
720|When you gain this feat, choose one revelation that you can use to affect no more than one opponent. If you make a successful unarmed strike against an opponent, in addition to dealing your unarmed strike damage, you can use a swift action to deliver the effects of the chosen revelation to that opponent. Doing so provokes no attacks of opportunity.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you take it, you apply it to a different qualifying revelation.
721|When you gain this feat, choose one arcane school power that you can use to affect no more than one opponent. If you make a successful unarmed strike against an opponent, in addition to dealing your unarmed strike damage, you can use a swift action to deliver the effects of the chosen school power to that opponent. Doing so provokes no attacks of opportunity.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you take it, you apply it to a different qualifying arcane school power.
722|To use this feat, you must make a single unarmed attack as a standard action. If this unarmed attack hits, you deal damage normally, and the target's base land speed is reduced to 5 feet for a number of rounds equal to your Wisdom modifier unless it makes a Fortitude saving throw (DC 10 + 1/2 your character level + your Wis modifier).
723|As a standard action, make a single unarmed melee attack against a foe whose speed is reduced (such as from Scorpion Style). If the attack hits, you deal damage normally and the target is staggered until the end of your next turn unless it makes a Fortitude saving throw (DC 10 + 1/2 your character level + your Wis modifier). This feat has no effect on targets that are staggered.
724|When you hit a creature while using Gorgon's Fist, if the target fails its Fortitude saving throw, it is dazed for 1 round instead of staggered. You can expend one use of mythic power when you hit with a Gorgon's Fist attack, but before the saving throw is attempted, to increase its DC by half your tier.
725|Whenever you use the full-attack action and make at least one unarmed strike, you can make two additional unarmed strikes at your highest base attack bonus. These bonus attacks must be made against a dazed, flat-footed, paralyzed, staggered, stunned, or unconscious foe.
726|You may forgo the two additional unarmed strikes of Medusa's Wrath to instead make a single unarmed strike at your highest base attack bonus. If you successfully hit your opponent, it must succeed at a Fortitude saving throw (DC 10 + 1/2 your character level + your Wisdom modifier) or be staggered for 1 round. You can expend one use of mythic power when you stagger a target with Medusa's Wrath to extend the duration of the staggered condition by a number of rounds equal to half your tier.
727|As a full-round action, you can make a single unarmed strike against a dazed, flat-footed, paralyzed, staggered, stunned, or unconscious foe. If that attack is a critical hit, the target is petrified unless it succeeds on a Fortitude saving throw with a DC of 10 + 1/2 your character level + your Wisdom modifier. This is a supernatural polymorph effect.
728|Whenever you are using Scorpion Style, you add your tier to the number of rounds the target's base land speed is reduced. You can expend one use of mythic power when making your attack to slow your target, as the spell slow, unless it succeeds at a Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 your character level + your Wisdom modifier). The slowing effect supersedes the normal speed penalty of your Scorpion Strike, but lasts for an equal number of rounds.
729|You gain a +2 bonus on Sense Motive checks, and you can deal piercing damage with your unarmed strikes. While using the Snake Style feat, when an opponent targets you with a melee or ranged attack, you can spend an immediate action to make a Sense Motive check. You can use the result as your AC or touch AC against that attack. You must be aware of the attack and not flat-footed.  Normal: An unarmed strike deals bludgeoning damage.
730|You gain a +4 bonus to CMD against trip combat maneuvers and on Acrobatics checks and saving throws to avoid being knocked prone. While using the Snake Style feat, whenever you score a critical threat with your unarmed strike, you can make a Sense Motive check in place of the attack roll to confirm the critical hit. Whenever you score a critical hit with your unarmed strike, you can spend an immediate action to take a 5-foot step even if you have otherwise moved this round.  Normal: You can take a 5-foot step only if you have not otherwise moved this round.
731|While using the Snake Style feat, when an opponent's attack misses you, you can make an unarmed strike against that opponent as an attack of opportunity. If this attack of opportunity hits, you can spend an immediate action to make another unarmed strike against the same opponent.
732|While using the Snapping Turtle Style feat with at least one hand free, you gain a +1 shield bonus to AC.
733|While you are using the Snapping Turtle Style feat, the shield bonus the style grants to your AC applies to your CMD and touch AC. Whenever an opponent misses you with a melee attack while you are using the Snapping Turtle Style feat, you can use an immediate action to attempt a grapple combat maneuver against that opponent, but with a –2 penalty.
734|While you are using the Snapping Turtle Style feat, the shield bonus the style grants to your AC increases to +2, and your enemies take a –4 penalty on critical confirmation rolls against you.
735|When you gain this feat, you choose one bloodline power that you can use to affect a single opponent. If you make a successful unarmed strike against an opponent, in addition to dealing your unarmed strike damage, you can spend a swift action to deliver the effects of the chosen bloodline power to that opponent. Doing so provokes no attacks of opportunity.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you take it, you apply it to a different qualifying bloodline power.
736|When you damage a foe with your unarmed attack, you can also cause it to be staggered for 1 round (until just before your next turn). The target can avoid this with a successful Fortitude saving throw (DC = 10 + 1/2 your character level + your Wisdom modifier). You must declare that you are using this feat before you make your attack roll; thus, a failed attack roll ruins the attempt. You can attempt to use this feat once per day for every 4 character levels you have, but no more than once per round. Constructs, incorporeal creatures, plants, undead, and creatures that are immune to critical hits cannot be affected by this ability.
737|You must declare that you are using this feat before you make your attack roll (thus, a failed attack roll ruins the attempt). Stunning Fist forces a foe damaged by your unarmed attack to make a Fortitude saving throw (DC 10 + 1/2 your character level + your Wis modifier), in addition to dealing damage normally. A defender who fails this saving throw is stunned for 1 round (until just before your next turn). A stunned character drops everything held, can't take actions, loses any Dexterity bonus to AC, and takes a –2 penalty to AC. You may attempt a stunning attack once per day for every four levels you have attained (but see Special), and no more than once per round. Constructs, oozes, plants, undead, incorporeal creatures, and creatures immune to critical hits cannot be stunned.  Special: A monk receives Stunning Fist as a bonus feat at 1st level, even if he does not meet the prerequisites. A monk may attempt a stunning attack a number of times per day equal to his monk level, plus one more time per day for every four levels he has in classes other than monk.
738|You can make a Stunning Fist attempt as a full-round action. If successful, instead of stunning your target, you reduce the target's AC by an amount equal to your Wisdom modifier for 1 minute. This penalty does not stack with other penalties applied due to Crushing Blow.
739|When you make a successful Stunning Fist attempt against an opponent that is grappled, helpless, or stunned, instead of imparting any other Stunning Fist effect, you can cripple that opponent's mouth, dealing normal unarmed strike damage and 1d4 points of bleed damage. Until the bleed damage ends, the target is unable to use its mouth to attack, speak clearly, and employ verbal spell components. A creature that is immune to critical hits or that has no discernible mouth is immune to the effects of this feat.
740|When you make a successful Stunning Fist attempt against an opponent that is grappled, helpless, or stunned, you can forgo any other Stunning Fist effect to deal 1d6 Strength or Dexterity damage to that opponent.
741|If you have an opponent your size or smaller helpless or pinned, after you initiate or maintain a grapple, you can make a Stunning Fist attempt at a –5 penalty on the attack roll. If you succeed, you wrench that opponent's neck, dealing 2d6 Strength or Dexterity damage. If the targeted ability score is reduced to 0, any remaining damage is dealt to that opponent's Constitution score. A creature that is immune to critical hits or that has no discernible head and neck is immune to the effects of this feat.
742|You gain one additional Stunning Fist attempt per day. While using this style, you gain a +2 bonus to the DC of effects you deliver with your Stunning Fist.
743|Treat half your levels in classes other than monk as monk levels for determining effects you can apply to a target of your Stunning Fist per the Stunning Fist monk class feature. You can also use a standard action and a successful melee touch attack to remove any Stunning Fist effect you have applied to a target.  While using Mantis Style, you gain a +2 bonus on unarmed attack rolls with which you are using Stunning Fist attempts.
744|You gain one additional Stunning Fist attempt per day. While using Mantis Style, you make an unarmed attack that expends two daily attempts of your Stunning Fist. If you hit, your opponent must succeed at a saving throw against your Stunning Fist or become dazzled and staggered with crippling pain until the start of your next turn, and at that point the opponent becomes fatigued.
745|The DC of your Stunning Fist increases by half your tier, and you can use Stunning Fist multiple times during the same round. As a free action, you can expend one use of your mythic power to use Stunning Fist without spending one of your daily uses of the feat.
746|Whenever you pin an opponent, you can spend a swift action to make a Stunning Fist attempt against that opponent.
747|While using this style, you gain a +2 bonus to your CMD against bull rush, overrun, and trip maneuvers. You can also deal slashing damage with your unarmed strikes. Whenever you score a critical hit with your slashing unarmed strike, your opponent also takes 1d4 points of bleed damage at the start of his next two turns.  Normal: Unarmed strikes deal bludgeoning damage.
748|While you are using the Tiger Style feat and have both hands free, you can use a full-round action to make a single unarmed strike with both hands. Use your highest base attack bonus, rolling unarmed strike damage for each hand separately and multiplying both if you score a critical hit. If you use Power Attack in conjunction with this attack, increase your Strength bonus on one of the damage rolls by an additional one-half your Strength bonus. If you hit, you can attempt a bull rush maneuver with a +2 bonus on the combat maneuver check. This bull rush attempt provokes no attack of opportunity from your opponent, but you cannot move with that opponent if your bull rush is successful.
749|While using the Tiger Style feat, you can apply the penalty from Power Attack to your AC instead of attack rolls. Additionally, once per round as a swift action, you can move up to half your speed closer to a target you hit with an unarmed strike or made a successful combat maneuver against on this turn or your last turn.
750|Your unarmed strike deals damage as if you were one size category larger. You also gain a +1 bonus for each size category that your target is larger than you on the following: bull rush, drag, grapple, overrun, sunder, and trip combat maneuver checks and the DC of your Stunning Fist.
751|You must declare that you are using this feat before you make your attack roll (thus a failed attack roll ruins the attempt). On a successful hit, the attack deals no damage and bestows no other effect or condition, but the target cannot cast spells or attack (including attacks of opportunity and attacks as immediate actions) for 1 round unless it succeeds on a Will saving throw with a DC of 10 + 1/2 your character level + your Wisdom modifier. You may attempt a touch of serenity once per day for every four levels you have attained (but see Special), and no more than once per round.  Special: A monk of the lotus receives Touch of Serenity as a bonus feat at 1st level, even if he does not meet the prerequisites. A monk may attempt a touch of serenity a number of times per day equal to his monk level, plus one more time per day for every four levels he has in classes other than monk.
752|Use elemental assault in 1-round increments
753|You can expend two arcane spell slots or prepared spells to cast one of your racial spell-like abilities. The level of each expended spell must be equal to or higher than the sorcerer/wizard spell level of the spell-like ability you want to cast.
754|You no longer need to breathe. You are immune to effects that require breathing (such as inhaled poison). This does not give you immunity to cloud or gas attacks that do not require breathing, such as cloudkill.
755|You gain a +2 bonus on Intimidate checks. If you have 10 or more ranks in Intimidate, this bonus increases to +4. Each time you slay an intelligent creature, you gain a +1 bonus on attack rolls and caster level checks for 1 minute (this bonus does not stack with itself).  Goal: Slay at least 200 more intelligent noncombatants, then slay a challenging foe that seeks to either bring you to justice for your crimes or usurp your position.  Completion
756|When you use a poisoned weapon to attempt an attack in conjunction with studied strike, the DC to resist the poison increases by half the number of your studied strike dice.
757|Whenever you make a Sense Motive check to oppose someone's Bluff check, you can roll two dice and take the higher result.
758|You can recreate an extract that you consumed during the past hour. You must spend 10 minutes and expend a number of uses of inspiration equal to the level of the extract's formula to do so. When you recreate an extract in this way, it does not count toward the number of extracts you can prepare in a day.
759|Allies in the area of your dirge of doom receive a +4 morale bonus on saving throws against fear effects. At least one enemy must be in the dirge's area and become shaken by the dirge for you and your allies to receive this bonus.
760|When you damage a creature by using the studied combat class feature, you can expend one use of inspiration to roll an inspiration die and increase the damage by the number rolled.
761|You can spend an immediate action to pronounce a judgment or change an active judgment.  Normal: Pronouncing or changing a judgment requires a swift action.
762|When you use your painful stare ability to increase your own damage, you deal an additional 1d6 points of damage. This damage increases to 2d6 at mesmerist level 12th and to 3d6 at mesmerist level 18th. When you use painful stare to augment an ally's damage, the target of the painful stare takes 1 additional point of damage for every 4 mesmerist levels you possess.
763|When an opponent charges your ally with this feat, as an immediate action you can move up to your speed toward any square in the path of the charge. If you end your movement in the path of the charge, the opponent must stop when it becomes adjacent to you and then attack you instead of your ally. Your movement from using this feat counts toward your movement on your next turn.
764|Whenever you are within 15 feet of another character who has this feat, you can ready an action to activate a simple blast of your choice. When that character unleashes a simple blast, yours is triggered, creating a composite blast for which the two simple blasts meet the prerequisites. The composite blast's caster level is equal to the average of the caster levels of both participants and deals damage as the appropriate composite blast created by a kineticist of that level (for example, if a 10th-level pyrokineticist and a 6th-level hydrokineticist worked together to create a steam blast, its base damage would be 4d6+4 points of fire damage and 4d6+4 points of bludgeoning damage).  One participant can provide a form infusion appropriate for the composite blast, and the other can provide an appropriate substance infusion. Each participant accepts the burn cost for the infusion she provided. The participant who didn't take the special ready action can apply a metakinesis to the blast, and she is the only one who can gather power to reduce the blast's cost (since only she has a move action to take prior to the blast). However, whatever metakinesis she applies affects the entire composite blast.  If the two participants aren't adjacent to each other, the origin point of cones, lines, and other effects that normally originate from a character's square instead originate from a point in the square located halfway between the two participants in a straight line (where the two simple blasts meet and form the composite blast).  The blast uses the Constitution modifier of whoever provided the substance infusion and the Dexterity modifier of whoever provided the form infusion. If the blast includes only one infusion, the blast uses the Constitution or Dexterity modifier of the kineticist who supplied that infusion, as appropriate for the infusion provided. If no infusions are used, the two kineticists choose one of them to provide the Dexterity modifier, and the other provides the Constitution modifier.
765|Once per day, as a free action, when making an Intimidate skill check, you can roll two dice and take the higher result.
766|You can attempt to demoralize the target of your hypnotic stare as a swift action.  Normal: Attempting to demoralize an opponent is a standard action.
767|When you start a performance or a raging song as a move action or a swift action, you can use a standard action to demoralize a foe, attempting a Perform check appropriate to your performance in place of the Intimidate check. Your performance must have an audible component. This is a sonic effect.  If you can start a performance as a swift action and you have the Dazzling Display feat, you can gain the benefit of Dazzling Display by succeeding at a Perform check in place of an Intimidate check.
768|An intensified spell increases the maximum number of damage dice by 5 levels. You must actually have sufficient caster levels to surpass the maximum in order to benefit from this feat. No other variables of the spell are affected, and spells that inflict damage that is not modified by caster level are not affected by this feat. An intensified spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell's actual level.
769|Add your Strength modifier to Intimidate skill checks in addition to your Charisma modifier.
770|You gain a bonus on Intimidate checks equal to your tier against non-mythic creatures, or half your tier against mythic creatures. If you also have the Persuasive (mythic) feat, you can expend one use of mythic power to treat the Intimidate check as if you had rolled a natural 20. You must decide to use this ability before the roll is made.
771|When you reduce your target to fewer than 0 hit points with a melee attack, as a swift action you can attempt an Intimidate check to demoralize all foes within 30 feet who can see your attack.
772|Creatures you demoralize by using the Killing Flourish feat must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC = 10 + 1/2 your character level + the higher of your Strength and Dexterity modifiers) or become sickened for 1 minute.
773|If you act in the surprise round of a combat, as a free action you can attempt a single Intimidate check to demoralize a creature within 30 feet that can clearly see or hear you.
774|You may use Intimidate, rather than Bluff, to attempt a feint against a creature within your melee reach.
775|An intuitive spell can be cast with no thought components. Spells without thought components are not affected. An intuitive spell uses up a spell slot 1 level higher than the spell's actual level.
776|You gain a +2 racial bonus on saving throws against any effect causing the nauseated or sickened conditions and against all ingested poisons (but not other poisons). In addition, you receive a +2 bonus on Survival skill checks to find food for yourself (and only yourself).
777|You gain a +1 natural armor bonus due to your unusually tough hide.
778|You get a +2 bonus on all Will saving throws.
779|Once per day as a standard action, you may attempt a new saving throw against a harmful condition requiring a Will save that is affecting you. If you are dominated, controlled, or cannot take an action because of the effect against which you are trying to make a new saving throw, you can make this saving throw at the start of the turn as no action, but on a success, your turn ends. You cannot use this feat to remove instantaneous effects, effects that do not require a Will save, or effects that do not allow a saving throw.
780|Once per day, you may reroll a Will save. You must decide to use this ability before the results are revealed. You must take the second roll, even if it is worse.
781|Whenever you roll a Will saving throw against a spell, spell-like ability, or supernatural ability from a non-mythic source, roll twice and take the higher result.
782|Once per day, you can treat your class level for your judgment class feature as if it were 3 higher than normal. If you have multiple judgments active at the same time, this benefit applies to all of them.
783|You gain the scent special ability.
784|You receive a +4 bonus on Perception checks to detect creatures with the shaken, frightened, or panicked conditions using scent. You can substitute your Perception skill for Sense Motive skill checks if the subject has one of the previous conditions or is attempting to cover up their fear in some way.
785|As long as you have at least one hand free, you can use a swift action to retrieve a single unattended item or weapon that weighs 10 pounds or less from the ground, either in your square or in any adjacent square not occupied or threatened by an enemy. Additionally, when you kick up a weapon and attempt a feint before the end of your turn, you receive a +2 circumstance bonus on the feint attempt.
786|You can ready an action to use your blast to counter an opponent's elemental abilities. If you ready a fire simple blast, you can counter any spell or activated extraordinary, supernatural, or spell-like ability that has the water or ice descriptor, and if you ready a cold or water simple blast, you can counter any spell or activated extraordinary, supernatural, or spell-like ability that has the fire descriptor. In order to successfully counter the effect, you must succeed at a caster level check with a DC equal to either 11 + the opponent's caster level (for spells and spell-like abilities) or 11 + the opponent's Hit Dice (for extraordinary and supernatural abilities). Against spells and spell-like abilities, treat a success as if you had counterspelled the effect using dispel magic. Against activated supernatural and extraordinary abilities, a successful kinetic counter negates the ability's effect entirely while still expending the ability. For example, if a pyrokineticist succeeds at her caster level check against a white dragon's breath weapon, she negates the breath weapon's effect in the entire area, and the dragon must wait 1d4 rounds to use its breath weapon again.
787|Once per day as a swift action, you can conjure a burst of energy from your kinetic blast to help you jump a long distance, adding a +10 bonus on your Acrobatics check to jump; if you have at least 10 ranks in Acrobatics, the bonus increases to +20. By accepting 1 point of burn, you can use this ability at will until your burn is removed.
788|While you have at least 1 ki point in your ki pool, you can stand up as a swift action that provokes attacks of opportunity.  You may spend 1 point of your ki pool to stand up as a swift action without provoking attacks of opportunity.
789|You take no penalty on Stealth checks when you move up to your full speed. You can use the run or charge action and remain hidden, taking a –10 penalty on the check to do so.  Normal: When moving greater than half speed up to your full speed, you take a –5 penalty on Stealth checks. When you are able to run or charge while using Stealth, you take a –20 penalty on the Stealth check.
790|When you are sniping, you only take a –10 penalty on your Stealth checks to stay hidden.  Normal: You take a –20 penalty on your Stealth check to maintain your obscured location while sniping.
791|You gain a favored terrain as the ranger ability of the same name, though the favored terrain bonuses you receive do not increase with your level. This ability counts as the favored terrain class feature for the purposes of prerequisites and other effects.  Special: You can select this feat up to four times. Each time you take it, you apply it to a different terrain. Unlike with the ranger's favored terrain class feature, the bonuses you gain for previously chosen terrain types don't increase.
792|Gain a cohort and followers
793|You can spend a move action to give battle orders to your troops, granting creatures under your command within 60 feet your choice of a +1 morale bonus on attack rolls, a +1 dodge bonus to AC, or a +1 bonus on a single type of saving throw. All creatures must receive the same benefit. You can't use this benefit on allies not under your command. This is a language-dependent, mind-affecting effect.  Goal: Build or capture a stronghold capable of housing a force of at least 200 troops, and staff it with at least 100 combat-capable soldiers (or the equivalent) under your command. You must also provide food and water sufficient to survive at least a 6-month siege and a gold reserve sufficient for at least 6 months of wages if your troops require pay.  Completion
794|When you use bardic performance with audible components in a forest, the range or area of your chosen performance is doubled. In addition, the DC for saving throws against your bardic performance is increased by +2 for creatures of the fey type, regardless of where the performance occurs.
795|Select one ranger trap (see page 64). You may use this trap a number of times per day equal to your Wisdom bonus (minimum 1). The DC for your trap is equal to 10 + 1/2 your character's level + your Wisdom bonus, and it lasts 1 day per two character levels.  If you are not a ranger, you can only set extraordinary traps with this feat; like all extraordinary ranger traps, this decreases the trap DC by 2.  Special: A ranger may use ranger traps a number of times per day equal to 1/2 his ranger level plus his Wisdom bonus. See the description of ranger traps for durations.
796|You can move at full speed while using Acrobatics to balance on narrow surfaces, and you gain a +4 bonus on Climb checks to catch yourself or another creature while falling. You also gain a +4 bonus on saving throws against effects that would cause you to fall prone (such as earthquakes). This bonus does not apply to your CMD against bull rush or trip attacks.
797|Any fixed numeric bonuses you gain from teamwork feats are increased by 1. This doesn't apply to variable numeric bonuses or to effects that are not numeric bonuses, such as additional attacks of opportunity, movement, or other extra actions.
798|You gain a +1 bonus on attack rolls, weapon damage rolls, and skill checks when your actions would directly lead to freeing prisoners or slaves.  Goal: Free at least 200 slaves through perilous rescues (not merely buying them at market).  Completion
799|As a standard action, you can channel positive energy to fascinate all undead within 30 feet for a number of rounds equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum of 1). Undead that succeed at a Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 your cleric level + your Charisma modifier) are unaffected. Channeling energy for this purpose does not heal or harm creatures.
800|At will as a full-round action, you may perform a special bloodletting ritual through which you sacrifice some of your own vitality to heal another creature. When using this feat, you take 1d4 points of damage and apply your blood to the wounds of a living creature, healing it for a number of hit points equal to the amount of damage you took from the ritual. This is a supernatural ability. Only you can perform this bloodletting. A creature cannot be healed by this ability more than once per day.
801|You get a +2 bonus on all Reflex saving throws.
802|Once per day, you may reroll a Reflex save. You must decide to use this ability before the results are revealed. You must take the second roll, even if it is worse.
803|Whenever you roll a Reflex saving throw against a spell, spell-like ability, or supernatural ability from a non-mythic source, roll twice and take the higher result.
804|When your invisibility ends, you gain concealment for 1 round per minute of duration the invisibility effect had remaining (minimum 1 round). This only occurs if the invisibility is from your racial spell-like ability or a spell you cast. Effects that negate invisibility negate this concealment.  Duergar Poison NameTypeFort DCOnsetFrequencyEffectCureCost Spellscorchinjury14—1/rd. for 4 rds.see text1 save200 gp  Open Game License.
805|The bonuses and penalties from your bardic performance continue for 2 rounds after you cease performing. Any other requirement, such as range or specific conditions, must still be met for the effect to continue. If you begin a new bardic performance during this time, the effects of the previous performance immediately cease.
806|You may cause an instantaneous spell that affects an area to persist until the beginning of your next turn. Those already in the area suffer no additional harm, but other creatures or objects entering the area are subject to its effects. A lingering spell with a visual manifestation obscures vision, providing concealment (20% miss chance) beyond 5 feet and total concealment (50% miss chance) beyond 20 feet.  A lingering spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell's actual level.
807|A logical spell can be cast without emotion components. Spells that don't require emotion components are not affected. A logical spell uses up a spell slot 1 level higher than the spell's actual level.
808|Once per day, you can assume the form of a human whose nose is the length of your beak. This spell-like ability functions as alter self with a caster level equal to your level. While in this form you gain the scent ability and a +2 bonus to your Strength score. Because your long nose in this form clearly indicates you are not fully human, you do not gain the normal bonus to Disguise checks for using a polymorph effect (however, you could possibly explain the nose as an unfortunate curse or deformity, or hide it with an item such as a plague doctor's mask).
809|Whenever you are adjacent to an ally who also has this feat, you may act in the surprise round as long as your ally would normally be able to act in the surprise round. If you would normally be denied the ability to act in the surprise round, your initiative is equal to your initiative roll or the roll of your ally –1, whichever is lower. If both you and your ally would be able to act in the surprise round without the aid of this feat, you may take both a standard and a move action (or a full-round action) during the surprise round.
810|You gain a +1 bonus on Charisma-based ability checks and skill checks.  Goal: Regain your family's lost claim, either for yourself or another in your family. In the process of completing this claim, you must decisively defeat a challenging foe that seeks to deny your birthright.  Completion
811|You gain a +1 dodge bonus to AC against ranged attacks. In addition, you do not provide soft cover to creatures when ranged attacks pass through your square.
812|You have greater control of the highly morphic qualities and wild magic of the Dimension of Dreams. You gain a +4 bonus on Charisma checks to determine your initial condition when your lucid body enters a dream and when attempting impossible feats in a dreamscape, and a +2 bonus on caster level checks to prevent a spell or spell-like ability from going awry because of wild magic. If someone casts a dream council spell that includes you as a target while you are dreaming, you can enter a shared dreamscape as described in that spell without spending a casting of dream or dream council. If your lucid body dies while in a dreamscape, you wake up fatigued.
813|Once per day, when one of your allies within 30 feet makes a saving throw, you may roll the same saving throw as if you were the one subject to the effect requiring it. You may use this ability after your ally has rolled, but before the GM declares if the roll was a success or failure. Your ally may choose to use your saving throw in place of his own.
814|When you use Lucky Halfling, add your tier as a bonus on the saving throw. You can expend one use of mythic power when an ally uses your save but still suffers an effect on a successful saving throw. If you do, that ally suffers no effect on the successful saving throw.
"815|When a magical healing effect (such as a spell with ""cure"" in the title or channel energy) cures you, you can spend one use of your adaptable luck racial trait to reroll the amount of damage cured. You regain a number of hit points equal to the new roll or the original roll, whichever is greater. Other creatures healed by the effect do not gain this benefit."
816|Spend a use of your adaptive luck racial trait to reroll the damage from a single weapon attack. You deal damage equal to the new damage roll, or the original roll, whichever is greater.
817|You can increase the reach of your melee attacks by 5 feet until the end of your turn by taking a –2 penalty to your AC until your next turn. You must decide to use this ability before any attacks are made.
818|Whenever you use Lunge and hit a creature with the melee attack, you no longer take a –2 penalty to AC against that creature. You can expend one use of mythic power when you use Lunge to negate the –2 penalty to AC whether you hit or miss, and gain a +2 bonus on attacks of opportunity you make while Lunge is in effect.
819|As a free action, you can increase the reach of your spells' melee touch attacks by 5 feet until the end of your turn by taking a –2 penalty to your AC until the start of your next turn. You must decide to use this ability before you make any attacks on your turn.
820|You get a +2 bonus on all Spellcraft checks and Use Magic Device checks. If you have 10 or more ranks in one of these skills, the bonus increases to +4 for that skill.
821|The bonus on Spellcraft and Use Magic Device skill checks from Magical Aptitude increases by 2. In addition, you can expend one use of mythic power to treat a Spellcraft or Use Magic Device check as if you had rolled a natural 20. You must decide to use this ability before making the roll.
822|You gain a new spell-like ability, each usable twice per day, from the following list, in order: disguise self, charm person, misdirection, invisibility, suggestion, displacement, confusion, dominate person. For example, the first time you select this feat, you gain disguise self 2/day; the second time you select this feat, you gain charm person 2/day. Your caster level for these spells is equal to your Hit Dice. The DCs for these abilities are Charisma-based.  Special: You may select this feat up to eight times. Each time you take it, you gain an additional ability as described above.
823|Choose a single Craft or Perform skill. Whenever you take 10 with this skill, treat your die result as a 15 instead.  Goal: Either sell a single self-created work of art for at least 25,000 gp, perform at least 10 performances for audiences of 100 or more while achieving an extraordinary result or better, or win the artistic patronage of the ruler of a country or city of at least 100,000 people. In each case, you must achieve this using the skill chosen above.  Completion
824|Once per day, you can surround yourself with the element associated with your bloodline. For a number of rounds equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum 1), you gain resistance 5 to that energy type, and all creatures that attempt a natural weapon attack or an unarmed strike against you take 2 points of damage of that same energy type. If you already have resistance to that energy type, the resistance increases by 5.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you do, you gain an additional daily use of this feat.
825|You can use the surge ability once per day (adding 1d6). If you are or become mythic, you can use your surge one additional time per day.
826|Choose one combat feat you know that applies to a specific weapon (e.g., Weapon Focus). You can use that feat with any weapon within the same weapon group.  Special: You may take this feat more than once. Each time it applies to a different feat.
827|You make attack rolls with the selected weapon normally (without the non-proficient penalty).  Normal: When using a weapon with which you are not proficient, you take a –4 penalty on attack rolls.  Special: Barbarians, fighters, paladins, and rangers are proficient with all martial weapons. They need not select this feat.  You can gain Martial Weapon Proficiency multiple times. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new type of weapon.
828|You receive a +2 bonus on Craft (alchemy) checks, and you may create mundane alchemical items much more quickly than normal. When making poisons, you can create a number of doses equal to your Intelligence modifier (minimum 1) at one time. These additional doses do not increase the time required, but they do increase the raw material cost.  In addition, whenever you make alchemical items or poisons using Craft (alchemy), use the item's gp value as its sp value when determining your progress (do not multiply the item's gp cost by 10 to determine its sp cost).
829|Choose one Craft or Profession skill in which you possess at least 5 ranks. You receive a +2 bonus on your chosen Craft or Profession skill. Ranks in your chosen skill count as your caster level for the purposes of qualifying for the Craft Magic Arms and Armor and Craft Wondrous Item feats. You can create magic items using these feats, substituting your ranks in the chosen skill for your total caster level. You must use the chosen skill for the check to create the item. The DC to create the item still increases for any necessary spell requirements (see the magic item creation rules in Magic Items). You cannot use this feat to create any spell-trigger or spell-activation item.  Normal: Only spellcasters can qualify for the Craft Magic Arms and Armor and Craft Wondrous Item feats.
830|All variable, numeric effects of a spell modified by this feat are maximized. Saving throws and opposed rolls are not affected, nor are spells without random variables. A maximized spell uses up a spell slot three levels higher than the spell's actual level.  An empowered, maximized spell gains the separate benefits of each feat: the maximum result plus half the normally rolled result.
831|Once per day when you surge, you can expend two uses of mythic power to treat your surge die as though it rolled the maximum result.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you do, you gain an extra use of this feat per day.
832|You can use your bane class feature to imbue a melee weapon with the menacing special weapon ability (Advanced Player's Guide 288) instead of bane. You can spend a swift action to switch between the two special weapon abilities. Doing so otherwise works according to your bane class feature.  Special: If you have the Double Bane feat, you can imbue each weapon you wield with either bane or menacing. No single weapon can have both.
833|While a weapon you wield is under the effect of your bane class feature, you can spend a swift action to switch between dealing lethal or nonlethal damage with bane. While your bane effect allows you to deal nonlethal damage in this way, you take no penalty on your attack roll for using a lethal weapon to deal nonlethal damage.  Normal: When using a lethal weapon to deal nonlethal damage, you take a –4 penalty on attack rolls.
834|You can alter spells that inflict damage to inflict nonlethal damage instead. Spells that inflict damage of a particular type (such as fire) inflict nonlethal damage of that same type. A merciful spell does not use up a higher-level spell slot than the spell's actual level.
835|You take only a –2 penalty when feinting against a non-humanoid and a –4 penalty when feinting against creatures with animal intelligence, as long as the target is a subject of your hypnotic stare. If you have at least 10 ranks in Bluff, you instead take no penalty when feinting against non-humanoids and creatures of animal intelligence under your hypnotic stare.  Normal: When feinting against a non-humanoid, you take a –4 penalty. Against a creature of animal intelligence, you take a –8 penalty.
836|You can feint against mindless creatures at a –4 penalty. Such a creature must be a subject of your hypnotic stare, and the creature has a 50% chance of ignoring the effects of your feint.  Normal: Feinting against a creature that is mindless is impossible.
837|If you deal damage to a creature with your rend ability, the critical threat range of your bite attack becomes 18–20 until the start of your next turn. This increase does not stack with other effects that increase your bite's critical threat range (such as the keen weapon special ability or the Improved Critical feat).
838|Choose one 1st-level spell that you know. You may cast that spell twice per day as a spell-like ability. The caster level for this spell-like ability is equal to your caster level in the class from whose spell list the spell is taken. The spell-like ability's save DC is Charisma-based. If the spell has an expensive focus or material component, it may not be chosen for this feat. You cannot apply metamagic feats to this spell.  Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new spell.
839|Choose one spell that you know of 5th level or lower. You may cast that spell twice per day as a spell-like ability. The caster level for this spell-like ability is equal to your caster level in the class from whose spell list the spell is taken. The spell-like ability's save DC is Charisma-based. If the spell has an expensive focus or material component, it may not be chosen for this feat. You cannot apply metamagic feats to this spell.  Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new spell.
840|When you spend a swift action to make a performance combat check, before making that check you can either move 5 feet without provoking attacks of opportunity, or you can move your speed and provoke attacks of opportunity. You cannot end this move in a space where you threaten an enemy. If you do move at least 5 feet, you gain a +2 bonus on the performance combat check.
841|When you supervise a construction project or do the construction yourself, reduce your raw material costs by 10%. You gain a +2 bonus on Knowledge (engineering) checks. If you have 10 or more ranks in Knowledge (engineering), this bonus increases to +4.  Goal: Design and construct a building worth at least 100,000 gp with great personal significance to you. For example, you might construct a new temple for your god on the site where an old temple was destroyed, or an academy for students to unlock the secrets of the universe.  Completion
842|When traveling overland, you and a number of allies equal to 10 times your character level reduce the amount of nonlethal damage taken as a result of a forced march by half. Creatures benefiting from this feat can delay the fatigued effect of a forced march for a number of hours equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum 1). A creature that delays this effect becomes exhausted instead of fatigued when the condition takes effect.
843|Your dark legacy manifests in one of the following ways. You choose the manifestation when you choose the feat, and once selected it cannot be changed.
844|Once per round when your mount is hit in combat, you may attempt a Ride check (as an immediate action) to negate the hit. The hit is negated if your Ride check result is greater than the opponent's attack roll.
845|You and your mount can overlap the space of mounts whose riders have this feat, although no more than two creatures can share any one square. Further, you can charge through a space containing an allied mount if that mount's rider has this feat, although the space from which you make your charge attack must comply with this feat's other benefit or be unoccupied.
846|The penalty you take when using a ranged weapon while mounted is halved: –2 instead of –4 if your mount is taking a double move, and –4 instead of –8 if your mount is running.
847|When using the Ride skill to use your mount as cover, you can still make a single ranged weapon attack as a standard action. While your mount is moving, you can expend one use of mythic power to negate the penalties for making ranged weapon attacks while mounted until the beginning of your next turn.
848|You can negate an additional number of hits against your mount per round equal to your tier. Once per round as an immediate action, you can expend one use of mythic power to substitute a Ride check for a single Reflex saving throw your mount must make.
849|You may add your base shield bonus (including the bonus from Shield Focus but not including enhancement bonuses) to your mount's AC. In addition, you may add this bonus when making a Ride check to negate a hit against your mount using the Mounted Combat feat.
850|When you are mounted and use the charge action, you may move and attack as if with a standard charge and then move again (continuing the straight line of the charge). Your total movement for the round can't exceed double your mounted speed. You and your mount do not provoke an attack of opportunity from the opponent that you attack.
851|When you successfully strike an opponent as part of a Ride-By Attack, you can continue to make attacks against successive targets. You can make one additional attack per 3 tiers you possess, but you can't make more attacks than you could if you were making a full attack. Successive attacks use the lower bonus for multiple attacks, as when making a full attack. You must move at least 10 feet between each attack.
852|When mounted and using the charge action, you deal double damage with a melee weapon (or triple damage with a lance).
853|When you hit an opponent with a mounted charge, that opponent must succeed at a Fortitude saving throw (DC 10 + 1/2 your character level + your Str modifier) or be staggered for a number of rounds equal to your tier. If you use a lance with this attack, increase the saving throw DC by 2. As a free action before you make the attack, you can expend one use of mythic power to daze your opponent on a failed saving throw instead of staggering it.
854|Your mount is always considered to have a running start when using Acrobatics to jump. You can expend one use of mythic power to grant your mount a +10 bonus on an Acrobatics check, or a +20 bonus if the check is made to jump.  When making a mounted charge, you can guide your mount to leap over a foe between your starting position and the target of your charge. You make a Ride check or your mount makes an Acrobatics check (whichever is lower) during the charge, using the rules for the leap task under the Ride skill. If the height you clear with that check exceeds the creature's height, you jump over it and continue your charge on the opposite side. This movement provokes attacks of opportunity. Alternatively, you can vault over your target while making a Ride-By Attack, allowing you to move over or through its space and continue moving on the opposite side of it. If your jump exceeds the target's height, you gain a +1 bonus on the attack roll for higher ground, and if any of your allies threatens the target, you treat the target as flanked for purposes of your Ride-By Attack.
855|When you attempt to overrun an opponent while mounted, your target may not choose to avoid you. Your mount may make one hoof attack against any target you knock down, gaining the standard +4 bonus on attack rolls against prone targets.
856|Your mount can make two hoof attacks against an opponent you knock down with an overrun, instead of one. You can expend one use of mythic power when you score a critical hit with one or more of those hoof attacks. When you do, the critical is automatically confirmed. If both scored critical hits, expending one use of mythic power automatically confirms both.
857|While wearing light or no armor, you do not need to make Ride skill checks for any task listed in the Ride skill with a DC of 15 or lower. You do not take a –5 penalty for riding a mount bareback. You can make a check using Mounted Combat to negate a hit on your mount twice per round instead of just once.
858|If your mount moves its speed or less, you can still take a full-attack action.  Normal: If your mount moves more than 5 feet, you can only take an attack action.
859|When charging an opponent while mounted and wielding a lance, resolve the attack as normal. If it hits, you may immediately make a free bull rush attempt in addition to the normal damage. If successful, the target is knocked off his horse and lands prone in a space adjacent to his mount that is directly away from you.
860|When you successfully bull rush an opponent off his mount with Unseat, your opponent takes 1d6 points of falling damage per 2 tiers you possess. Items or abilities that reduce falling damage, such as a successful Acrobatics check, can reduce the damage dealt by the impact.
861|The creature's secondary attacks with natural weapons take only a –2 penalty.  Normal: Without this feat, the creature's secondary attacks with natural weapons take a –5 penalty.
862|All of your classes are considered favored classes. You gain either +1 hit point or +1 skill point whenever you take a level in any class. Apply these bonuses retroactively for all class levels that have not yet gained one of these bonuses.  Normal: Half-elves with the multitalented racial trait have two favored classes.
863|Penalties for fighting with multiple weapons are reduced by –2 with the primary hand and by –6 with off hands.  Normal: A creature without this feat takes a –6 penalty on attacks made with its primary hand and a –10 penalty on attacks made with all of its off hands. (It has one primary hand, and all the others are off hands.) See Two-Weapon Fighting in the Pathfinder RPG Core Rulebook.  Special: This feat replaces the Two-Weapon Fighting feat for creatures with more than two arms.
864|You gain a +1 bonus on attack rolls and damage rolls against creatures whose hatred racial trait or favored enemy class feature applies to you. For instance, an orc would gain this bonus against all dwarves and against rangers who chose humanoid (orc) as a favored enemy.
865|You're considered a mythic creature for the purposes of determining how mythic spells and effects affect you. If you ever become mythic, you gain a +1 bonus on all saves against mythic spells and effects.
866|You can create any mythic magic item for which you have the appropriate item creation feat. In addition, you gain a +5 bonus on skill checks when creating non-mythic magic items.
867|Your tier is considered 2 higher for determining the potency of mythic abilities, feats, and spells. This doesn't grant you access to mythic abilities or greater versions of mythic spells at a lower tier than you would normally need to be to get them, nor does it grant you additional uses of mythic power or adjust the dice you roll for your surge.
868|You can learn a number of mythic spells equal to your tier and can expend mythic power when casting them to enhance the results. To select a mythic spell, you must be able to cast the non-mythic version or have it on your list of spells known. Every time you gain a new tier, you can select an additional mythic spell.  Special: You can select this feat multiple times. Each time you select this feat, you must select different spells.
869|When in either unclaimed wilderness or land under your own control, you receive a +2 bonus on Perception checks, Stealth checks, and Survival checks. If you have 10 or more ranks in one of these skills, the bonus on that skill increases to +4.  Goal: Explore and conquer an area of at least 1,000 square miles, in the process decisively defeating a challenging foe. You must also lay claim to the land either in your own name or in the name of a leader you directly report to, and establish a stronghold or other fortification to defend it.  Completion
870|You can take 20 on any Charisma-based skills to charm, convince, persuade, or seduce humanoids whose attitude is at least friendly to you. Taking 20 still requires 20 times the normal time to perform the skill.  Normal: You cannot take 20 on any check where you incur penalties for failure.
871|You can complete the verbal and somatic components of spells while using wild shape. You substitute various noises and gestures for the normal verbal and somatic components of a spell.  You can also use any material components or focuses you possess, even if such items are melded within your current form. This feat does not permit the use of magic items while you are in a form that could not ordinarily use them, and you do not gain the ability to speak while using wild shape.
872|When you're using wild shape, you can use spell completion and spell trigger magic items that were on your person when you changed form. You don't need to physically manipulate the items when you use them while using wild shape. Furthermore, you can speak normally when using wild shape.
873|You gain know direction as a constant spell-like ability, and can choose another druid orison you can cast as a spell-like ability once per day. Your caster level for both of these spell-like abilities is equal to your character level.
874|Having a nemesis drives you to excel in training. For each new level you gain in a favored class, including the level you gained when you chose this feat, you can choose two benefits instead of one. One of these benefits must be either a bonus hit point or a bonus skill point, even if other options are available.  Goal: Slay your nemesis. Causing your nemesis's death through your direct actions qualifies even if you do not strike the fatal blow, but another killing your nemesis without your involvement doesn't count.  Completion
875|Whenever you move, you may move through 5 feet of difficult terrain each round as if it were normal terrain. This feat allows you to take a 5-foot step into difficult terrain.
876|Whenever you move, you may move through up to 15 feet of difficult terrain each round as if it were normal terrain. The effects of this feat stack with those provided by Nimble Moves (allowing you to move normally through a total of 20 feet of difficult terrain each round).
877|You can ignore the effects of difficult terrain in natural environments, as if it were normal terrain.
878|You can move at full speed even through thorns, briars, and overgrown areas that are enchanted or magically manipulated to impede motion, even if those areas confer the entangled condition.  Normal: Woodland stride does not apply to thorns, briars, and overgrowth areas that are enchanted or magically manipulated.
879|For every 2 tiers you possess, you can move through up to 5 feet of difficult terrain each round as if it were normal terrain (minimum 5 feet). This effect stacks with those provided by Nimble Moves and Acrobatic Steps.
880|You do not take a –2 penalty to AC when you use the Cleave feat, Lunge feat, or when you charge.
881|When you make a charge, you can make a full attack with your claws.
882|Whenever you deal damage with a ranged attack, you gain a +4 circumstance bonus on the next melee attack roll you make against the opponent. This attack must occur before the end of your next turn.
883|You get a +2 bonus on Sense Motive checks and Spellcraft checks. If you have 10 or more ranks in one of these skills, the bonus increases to +4 for that skill.
"884|When you take this feat, choose one of the benefits below. Whenever you wield a weapon that has ""orc"" in its name, you gain the benefit you chose so long as you are actually proficient with that weapon.  Bully: Gain a +1 bonus on damage rolls against creatures at least one size smaller than you. Defender: Gain a +1 shield bonus to your AC (or +2 if wielding a two-handed weapon). Disrupter: Add 3 to the DC of opponentsâ concentration checks. This only applies if you are aware of the enemy's location and are capable of taking an attack of opportunity. If you have already used all of your available attacks of opportunity for the round, this increase does not apply. Killer: Gain a +2 competence bonus on attack rolls made to confirm critical hits. Thug: Deal +1 point of nonlethal damage with the weapon. Trickster: Gain a +2 bonus on a single type of combat maneuver check that you can perform with that weapon. This feat has no effect if you are not proficient with the weapon you're using.  Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Each time you take this feat, you must choose a different benefit. You may only apply one of these benefits per round (chosen as a free action at the start of your turn)."
885|Whenever you and an ally who also has this feat are flanking the same creature, your flanking bonus on attack rolls increases to +4. In addition, whenever you score a critical hit against the flanked creature, it provokes an attack of opportunity from your ally.
886|When you are adjacent to an ally with this feat, the first time you melee attack an opponent, you can spend an immediate action to take a 5-foot step, even if you have otherwise moved this round.  Normal: You can take a 5-foot step only if you have not otherwise moved in a round.
"887|Once per day, when confronted with a situation that calls for a particular mundane item, you happen to have such an item on your person. The item must cost no more than 25 gp plus 5 gp per level, and you must pay its cost when you ""find"" it (in other words, the money you thought you had on your person was actually the item). The item must be something you can easily carry—for example, if you are on foot and have only a backpack, you could not have a large iron cauldron. You can't find magical items using this feat, nor can you have specific items, such as the key to a particular door. If you are stripped of your equipment or possessions, you lose the benefits of this feat until you have at least a day to resupply and acquire new items."
888|When an evil outsider uses a calling, summoning, or teleportation effect, or any ability that physically transports a creature to or from another plane (such as blink or etherealness) within your anchoring aura, it takes damage equal to 4d8 + your Charisma modifier. This damage comes from holy power and is not subject to damage reduction, energy immunities, or energy resistances.
889|Whenever you are adjacent to an ally who also has this feat, you receive a +4 circumstance bonus on attacks of opportunity against creatures that you both threaten. Enemies that provoke attacks of opportunity from your ally also provoke attacks of opportunity from you so long as you threaten them (even if the situation or an ability would normally deny you the attack of opportunity). This does not allow you to take more than one attack of opportunity against a creature for a given action.
890|You can accept 1 point of burn to prepare a kinetic blast that automatically triggers upon your death. If you are killed at any point before your burn is removed, your body instantly erupts in an explosion that deals an amount of damage equal to that of your simple blast to all creatures in a 5-foot radius. A parting blast destroys your body, which might prevent any magic that requires an intact corpse.
891|You receive a +10 bonus on Disguise checks to disguise yourself as a human, and do not receive the penalty for disguising yourself as a member of another race when you do so. In areas largely populated or settled by humans, you can take 10 on your Disguise check, meaning most people tend to assume you are human unless given a reason to think otherwise.  Special: A halfling may take this feat, but must have the Childlike feat as a prerequisite. The benefits of the two feats stack.
892|You treat all weapons you are proficient in as if they had the performance weapon quality (page 144).
893|Whenever a creature targeted by a persistent spell or within its area succeeds on its saving throw against the spell, it must make another saving throw against the effect. If a creature fails this second saving throw, it suffers the full effects of the spell, as if it had failed its first saving throw. A persistent spell uses up a spell slot two levels higher than the spell's actual level.  Spells that do not require a saving throw to resist or lessen the spell's effect do not benefit from this feat.
894|You get a +2 bonus on Diplomacy and Intimidate skill checks. If you have 10 or more ranks in one of these skills, the bonus increases to +4 for that skill.
895|The bonus on Diplomacy and Intimidate skill checks granted by Persuasive increases by 2. In addition, you can expend one use of mythic power to treat a Diplomacy or Intimidate check as if you had rolled a natural 20. You must decide to use this ability before making the roll.
896|When using the Diplomacy skill to make a request or change a creature's attitude, you can use verbal misdirection. To do so, make a Bluff check against that creature. If you succeed, you gain a +4 bonus on your next Diplomacy check against that creature if the check is made within the next minute. If you fail by 5 or more, you instead take a –2 penalty on your next Diplomacy check against that creature. Alternatively, you can use this feat to retry a single failed Diplomacy check against a creature. You take a –4 penalty on your Bluff check when using Rhetorical Flourish in this way. If you succeed, rather than gaining this feat's normal bonus, you can retry your last Diplomacy check against the creature if that check was made in the past minute.
897|When you successfully use Rhetorical Flourish against a non-mythic creature, the bonus on your Diplomacy check increases by your tier. If the target is a mythic creature, you instead increase the bonus by half your tier.  You can expend one use of mythic power to reroll a single failed Bluff check. You must take the new result even if it is lower.
898|Your phantom's natural weapons are treated as having the ghost touch property. In addition, when you cast a touch spell to be delivered by your phantom, you can modify the spell as if you possessed the Ectoplasmic Spell metamagic feat.
899|Your phantom has a 50% chance of ignoring critical hits and precision-based damage when fully manifested in its ectoplasmic form, as if wearing armor with the moderate fortification special ability. This doesn't stack with other similar effects, and doesn't apply against attacks made with ghost touch weapons or weaponlike constructs made of force (such as a clenched fist, mage's sword, or spiritual weapon).
900|When you cast a piercing spell against a target with spell resistance, it treats the spell resistance of the target as 5 lower than its actual SR. A piercing spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell's actual level.
901|For every summon nature's ally extract you know, you learn the equivalent summon monster spell as an extract. If you later learn other summon nature's ally extracts, you automatically learn the equivalent summon monster spell as an extract.
902|When you use wild shape to take the form of an animal, you can expend an additional daily use of your wild shape class feature to add the celestial template or fiendish template to your animal form. (Good druids must use the celestial template, while evil druids must use the fiendish template.) If your form has the celestial template and you score a critical threat against an evil creature while using your form's natural weapons, you gain a +2 bonus on the attack roll to confirm the critical hit. The same bonus applies if your form has the fiendish template and you score a critical threat against a good creature.
903|You get a +1 bonus on attack and damage rolls with ranged weapons at ranges of up to 30 feet.
904|When using a sling or sling staff, you reduce your penalty on ranged attack rolls due to range by 2. Point-Blank Shot's damage bonus applies within the first normal range increment of your sling (50 feet) or sling staff (80 feet).
905|You can use the charge rules to make a thrown weapon attack. All the parameters of a charge apply, except that you must only move closer to your opponent, and you must end your movement within 30 feet of that opponent. If you do, you can make a single thrown weapon attack against that opponent, gaining the +2 bonus on the attack roll and taking a –2 penalty to your AC until the start of your next turn.
906|When you use Charging Hurler, your target can be at any range up to your weapon's maximum range. If your target is within 30 feet, you gain a +2 bonus on damage rolls.  Normal: Using Charging Hurler requires you to end your movement within 30 feet of your opponent.
907|If your ally with this feat is threatening an opponent and is not providing cover to that opponent against your ranged attacks, you gain a +1 bonus on ranged attacks against that opponent. If your ally with this feat is flanking that opponent with another ally (even if that other ally doesn't have this feat), this bonus increases to +2.
908|If you ready an action to shoot an opponent casting a spell within 30 feet and successfully hit that opponent with a ranged attack, the concentration DC to successfully cast the spell is increased by +4.
909|You only suffer a –1 penalty per full range increment between you and your target when using a ranged weapon.  Normal: You suffer a –2 penalty per full range increment between you and your target.
910|As a swift action, you can expend one use of mythic power to ignore all range increment penalties for your ranged attacks until the end of your turn.
911|Whenever you score a critical hit with a ranged attack, in addition to the normal damage your attack deals, if your confirmation roll exceeds your opponent's CMD, you can push your opponent back as if from the bull rush combat maneuver or knock that target prone as if from a trip combat maneuver. If you choose to bull rush, you cannot move with the target. Your maneuver does not provoke an attack of opportunity.  Normal: You must perform a bull rush combat maneuver to bull rush an opponent, and you must perform a trip combat maneuver to trip an opponent.
912|The bonus on attack and damage rolls granted by Point-Blank Shot increases to +2. As a swift action, you can expend one use of mythic power to gain an additional bonus on these rolls equal to half your tier.
913|You can shoot or throw ranged weapons at an opponent engaged in melee without taking the standard –4 penalty on your attack roll.
914|When you use a full-attack action to make multiple ranged weapon attacks against the same opponent, total the damage from all hits before applying that opponent's damage reduction.  Special: If the massive damage optional rule is being used (Core Rulebook 189), that rule applies if the total damage you deal with this feat is equal to or exceeds half the opponent's full normal hit points (minimum 50 points of damage).
915|You receive a +2 bonus on ranged attacks made against a foe flanked by 1 or more allies with this feat.
916|As a standard action, you may make an attack with a bow or crossbow and add your Intelligence modifier on the damage roll. You must be within 30 feet of your target to deal this extra damage. Creatures immune to critical hits and sneak attacks are immune to this extra damage.  Special: Starting at 2nd level, a ranger with the archery combat style may select Focused Shot as a combat style feat.
917|Your ranged attacks ignore the AC bonus granted to targets by anything less than total cover, and the miss chance granted to targets by anything less than total concealment. Total cover and total concealment provide their normal benefits against your ranged attacks.  Normal: See the normal rules on the effects of cover and concealment in Combat.
918|As a standard action, make a single ranged attack. The target does not gain any armor, natural armor, or shield bonuses to its Armor Class. You do not gain the benefit of this feat if you move this round.
919|You can use this feat even if you move this round, but only if the distance you move is equal to or less than 5 feet per tier.
920|When making a full-attack action with a ranged weapon, you can fire one additional time this round at your highest bonus. All of your attack rolls take a –2 penalty when using Rapid Shot.
921|When making a full-attack action with a bow, your first attack fires two arrows. If the attack hits, both arrows hit. Apply precision-based damage (such as sneak attack) and critical hit damage only once for this attack. Damage bonuses from using a composite bow with a high Strength bonus apply to each arrow, as do other damage bonuses, such as a ranger's favored enemy bonus. Damage reduction and resistances apply separately to each arrow.
922|When making a full-attack action with a bow and using Manyshot, you fire two arrows with both your first and second attacks, instead of just your first attack.
923|When using Rapid Shot, you can either ignore the feat's –2 penalty on attack rolls or make two additional attacks instead of one.
924|While wielding a ranged weapon with which you have Weapon Focus, you threaten squares within 5 feet of you. You can make attacks of opportunity with that ranged weapon. You do not provoke attacks of opportunity when making a ranged attack as an attack of opportunity.  Normal: While wielding a ranged weapon, you threaten no squares and can make no attacks of opportunity with that weapon.
925|You threaten an additional 5 feet with Snap Shot.  Normal: Making a ranged attack provokes attacks of opportunity.
926|Whenever you make an attack of opportunity using a ranged weapon and hit, you gain a +2 bonus on the damage roll and a +2 bonus on rolls to confirm a critical hit with that attack. These bonuses increase to +4 when you have base attack bonus +16, and to +6 when you have base attack bonus +20.
927|When you use the Two-Weapon Fighting feat while wielding a melee weapon and a crossbow or firearm, your attacks with the crossbow or firearm provoke no attacks of opportunity from foes that you threaten with your melee weapon.  Normal: Making a ranged attack provokes attacks of opportunity.
928|When adjacent to an opponent and making a full-attack action with a longbow or shortbow (including composite bows), you may choose to make a melee attack against that opponent with a drawn arrow rather than firing it. If the attack hits—whether or not it does damage—your target is pushed back 5 feet away from you. You can then fire arrows from your bow normally, at the original target, or at another target within range. This melee attack replaces the extra attack from Rapid Shot, and all of your attack rolls for the round (the melee attack and the ranged attacks) take a –2 penalty. If your initial attack leaves you with no enemies threatening you, you can make the subsequent ranged attack or attacks without provoking attacks of opportunity.
929|When an ally who also has this feat makes a ranged attack and hits an opponent within 30 feet of you, you can spend an immediate action to make a single ranged attack against that opponent. Your ranged weapon must be in hand, loaded, and ready to be fired or thrown for you to make the ranged attack.
930|As a full-round action, you can move up to your speed and make a single ranged attack at any point during your movement.  Normal: You cannot move before and after an attack with a ranged weapon.
931|Once per encounter, when using the withdraw action, you can make a single ranged attack at any point during your movement.  Normal: You cannot attack when using the withdraw action.  Special: Starting at 6th level, a ranger with the archery combat style may select Parting Shot as a combat style feat.
932|Whenever you use Shot on the Run, you can make two ranged attacks at your highest base attack bonus at any point during your movement, instead of just one.
933|You can use your dancing lights racial spell-like ability to create one orb of penetrating light. This light grants you a +2 insight bonus on all ranged attacks made against targets within 5 feet of the light's location. You can direct this light to a new location anywhere within the spell's range as a move action, otherwise the effect functions exactly like dancing lights . You can use this ability once per day, plus an additional time per day when your caster level for your racial dancing lights spell-like ability reaches 5th, 10th, 15th, and 20th.
934|When you attack with a technological firearm that consumes charges, the save DC of any effect caused by that firearm increases by 1. If your bonuses from Point-Blank Shot apply, it increases by 2 instead.
935|Whenever you use your surge ability, add 1 to your surge result.
936|Whenever you use your surge ability, you can roll your surge dice twice and take the higher result. If you can already roll your surge dice twice and take the higher result, you roll your surge dice three times and take the highest result.
937|You can choose to take a –1 penalty on all melee attack rolls and combat maneuver checks to gain a +2 bonus on all melee damage rolls. This bonus to damage is increased by half (+50%) if you are making an attack with a two-handed weapon, a one handed weapon using two hands, or a primary natural weapon that adds 1-1/2 times your Strength modifier on damage rolls. This bonus to damage is halved (–50%) if you are making an attack with an off-hand weapon or secondary natural weapon. When your base attack bonus reaches +4, and every 4 points thereafter, the penalty increases by –1 and the bonus to damage increases by +2. You must choose to use this feat before making an attack roll, and its effects last until your next turn. The bonus damage does not apply to touch attacks or effects that do not deal hit point damage.
938|You can choose to take a –5 penalty on all melee attack rolls and combat maneuver checks to inflict 1d4 points of bleed damage with your weapon melee attacks, in addition to the normal damage dealt by the weapon. A creature continues to take bleed damage every round at the start of its turn. Bleed damage can be stopped by a DC 15 Heal check or through any magical healing. Bleed damage from this feat does not stack with itself. You must choose to use this feat before making the attack roll, and its effects last until your next turn (although the bleeding lasts until healed, as normal).
939|As a standard action, you can make a single attack at your full base attack bonus against a foe within reach. If you hit, you deal damage normally and can make an additional attack (using your full base attack bonus) against a foe that is adjacent to the first and also within reach. You can only make one additional attack per round with this feat. When you use this feat, you take a –2 penalty to your Armor Class until your next turn.
940|Whenever you use Cleave or Great Cleave, one of your attacks can be made against a foe that is within your reach, but not adjacent to the foe you attacked. You can expend one use of mythic power when you use Cleave or Great Cleave to continue making attacks against foes within your reach, regardless of their position, as long as you continue to hit each foe. You can't use this ability to attack a foe more than once per round.
941|When using Cleave or Great Cleave, if your initial attack hits, you may take a single 5-foot step as a free action before making your additional attacks. If doing so places a creature within your threatened area, that creature becomes a legal target for your additional Cleave attack(s) as long as it meets all the other prerequisites.  Normal: You may only make additional attacks with Cleave against creatures you threaten when you make your initial attack.
942|If you make a melee attack, and your target drops to 0 or fewer hit points as a result of your attack, you can make another melee attack using your highest base attack bonus against another opponent within reach. You can make only one extra attack per round with this feat.
943|You can use Cleaving Finish any number of times per round.
944|Against a creature of size Large or larger, you can make a single melee attack as a full-round action, gaining a +4 bonus on the attack roll, damage roll, and critical confirmation roll. You gain an additional +1 on this bonus at base attack bonus +11, +16, and +20 (for a maximum of +7 at base attack +20). After you resolve your attack, the opponent you attack can spend an immediate action to make a single melee attack against you with the same bonuses.  Special: You can combine the full-round action attack this feat allows with the benefit of Vital Strike, Improved Vital Strike, or Greater Vital Strike.
945|When using Cleave or Great Cleave, if your initial attack hits, you may take your additional attacks against any creature smaller than you that you threaten; your targets need not be adjacent to one another. Additional attacks you make against humanoids (goblinoid) gain a +2 circumstance bonus on attack rolls.
946|This feat functions as Goblin Cleaver, but your additional attacks can be made against creatures your size or smaller. In addition, any such attacks that you make against humanoids (orc) gain a +2 circumstance bonus on attack rolls.
947|This functions as Goblin Cleaver, but your additional attacks can be made against creatures one size category larger than you or smaller. In addition, any such attacks made against humanoids (giant) gain a +2 circumstance bonus on attack rolls.
948|As a standard action, you can make a single attack at your full base attack bonus against a foe within reach. If you hit, you deal damage normally and can make an additional attack (using your full base attack bonus) against a foe that is adjacent to the previous foe and also within reach. If you hit, you can continue to make attacks against foes adjacent to the previous foe, so long as they are within your reach. You cannot attack an individual foe more than once during this attack action. When you use this feat, you take a –2 penalty to your Armor Class until your next turn.
949|When using Cleave or Great Cleave, the second foe you attack on your turn is denied its Dexterity bonus against you.
950|When using Great Cleave, each opponent you attack on your turn (other than the first) is denied his Dexterity bonus against you.
951|You can choose to take a –5 penalty on all melee attack rolls and combat maneuver checks to daze opponents you hit with your melee attacks for 1 round, in addition to the normal damage dealt by the attack. A successful Fortitude save negates the effect. The DC of this save is 10 + your base attack bonus. You must choose to use this feat before making the attack roll, and its effects last until your next turn.
952|When you are wielding a two-handed weapon or a one-handed weapon with two hands, and using the Power Attack feat, you do not suffer Power Attack's penalty on melee attack rolls on the first attack you make each turn. You still suffer the penalty on any additional attacks, including attacks of opportunity.
953|Whenever you reduce an enemy to 0 or fewer hit points, you can make an Intimidate check to demoralize all enemies within 30 feet as a free action. Enemies that cannot see both you and the enemy you reduced to 0 or fewer hit points are unaffected.
954|When you use Dreadful Carnage, you affect non-mythic enemies within 60 feet in addition to all enemies within 30 feet. You can expend one use of mythic power before making the Intimidate check to cause enemies demoralized by Dreadful Carnage to become frightened instead of shaken, for the same duration as the normal shaken effect. While frightened by this ability, an enemy takes a penalty equal to your tier on attack rolls, saving throws, skill checks, and ability checks.
955|When you are using Furious Focus, you don't take Power Attack's penalty on attack rolls that are made as attacks of opportunity. As a free action, you can expend one use of mythic power to negate Power Attack's penalty on all melee attacks you make for 1 round while using this feat.
956|When you successfully demoralize an opponent within your melee reach with an Intimidate check, you can make a single melee attack against that creature as a swift action. If your attack fails to damage the target, its shaken condition from being demoralized immediately ends.
957|Once per round when you damage a creature that is shaken, frightened, or panicked, you can choose to deal half your normal damage in order to extend the duration of its fear condition by 1 round.
958|You do not provoke an attack of opportunity when performing a bull rush combat maneuver. In addition, you receive a +2 bonus on checks made to bull rush a foe. You also receive a +2 bonus to your Combat Maneuver Defense whenever an opponent tries to bull rush you.  Normal: You provoke an attack of opportunity when performing a bull rush combat maneuver.
959|As a standard action, the creature may perform an awesome blow combat maneuver. If the creature's maneuver succeeds against a corporeal opponent smaller than itself, its opponent takes damage (typically slam damage plus Strength bonus) and is knocked flying 10 feet in a direction of the attacking creature's choice and falls prone. The attacking creature can only push the opponent in a straight line, and the opponent can't move closer to the attacking creature than the square it started in. If an obstacle prevents the completion of the opponent's move, the opponent and the obstacle each take 1d6 points of damage, and the opponent is knocked prone in the space adjacent to the obstacle.
960|When you hit your opponent with a charge attack, you can attempt an awesome blow combat maneuver against that opponent as a free action.
961|You receive a +2 bonus on checks to perform an awesome blow combat maneuver. You also gain a +2 bonus to your combat maneuver defense whenever an opponent tries to perform an awesome blow combat maneuver against you. Whenever you successfully perform an awesome blow combat maneuver, your opponent's movement provokes attacks of opportunity from all your allies (but not from you).  Normal: Creatures moved by awesome blow do not provoke attacks of opportunity.
962|Whenever you score a critical hit with a melee attack, you can push your opponent back, in addition to the normal damage dealt by the attack. If your confirmation roll exceeds your opponent's CMD, you may push your opponent back as if from the bull rush combat maneuver. You do not need to move with the target if successful. This does not provoke an attack of opportunity.  Normal: You must perform a bull rush combat maneuver to bull rush an opponent.  Special: You can only apply the effects of one of the following feats to a given critical hit: Bull Rush Strike, Disarming Strike, Repositioning Strike, Sundering Strike, or Tripping Strike. You may choose to use this feat after you make your confirmation roll.
963|You receive a +2 bonus on checks made to bull rush a foe. This bonus stacks with the bonus granted by Improved Bull Rush. Whenever you bull rush an opponent, his movement provokes attacks of opportunity from all of your allies (but not you).  Normal: Creatures moved by bull rush do not provoke attacks of opportunity.
964|You gain a bonus equal to half your tier on checks to bull rush, and to your CMD when an opponent bull rushes you. These bonuses stack with those granted by non-mythic Improved Bull Rush.  Furthermore, you can make an attack of opportunity against any creature that attempts to bull rush you, unless it also has this feat.
965|On your turn, you can perform a single bull rush combat maneuver in place of one of your melee attacks. You must choose the melee attack with the highest base attack bonus to make the bull rush.  Normal: A bull rush combat maneuver is a standard action.
966|While raging, when you attempt a bull rush combat maneuver, you can spend 1 additional round of your rage as a swift action to add your Constitution bonus on your combat maneuver check to the bull rush. Further, if you bull rush an opponent into a square another creature occupies or into a solid object, the opponent and the creature or object take bludgeoning damage equal to your Strength modifier + your Constitution modifier.
967|Whenever an opponent that is adjacent to you fails to penetrate your DR with a melee attack, you can spend an immediate action to attempt a bull rush combat maneuver against that opponent. If you succeed, you cannot move with the opponent.  Normal: A bull rush combat maneuver is a standard action.
968|You do not provoke an attack of opportunity when performing a drag combat maneuver. In addition, you receive a +2 bonus on checks made to drag a foe. You also receive a +2 bonus to your Combat Maneuver Defense when an opponent tries to drag you.  Normal: You provoke an attack of opportunity when performing a drag combat maneuver.
969|You receive a +2 bonus on checks made to drag a foe. This bonus stacks with the bonus granted by Improved Drag. Whenever you drag a foe, his movement provokes attacks of opportunity from all of your allies (but not you).  Normal: Creatures moved by drag do not provoke attacks of opportunity.
970|You gain a bonus equal to half your tier on checks to attempt a drag combat maneuver, and to your CMD when an opponent attempts a drag combat maneuver against you. These bonuses stack with those granted by Improved Drag.  Furthermore, you can make an attack of opportunity against any creature that attempts a drag maneuver against you, unless it also has this feat.
971|On your turn, you can perform a single drag combat maneuver (Advanced Players Guide 320) in place of one of your melee attacks. You must choose the melee attack with the highest base attack bonus to make the drag.  Normal: A drag combat maneuver is a standard action.
972|You do not provoke an attack of opportunity when performing an overrun combat maneuver. In addition, you receive a +2 bonus on checks made to overrun a foe. You also receive a +2 bonus to your Combat Maneuver Defense whenever an opponent tries to overrun you. Targets of your overrun attempt may not chose to avoid you.  Normal: You provoke an attack of opportunity when performing an overrun combat maneuver.
973|When making a charge, you can attempt to overrun one creature in the path of the charge as a free action. If you successfully overrun that creature, you can complete the charge. If the overrun is unsuccessful, the charge ends in the space directly in front of that creature.  Normal: You must have a clear path toward the target of your charge.
974|When charging, you can ignore allies in your path when determining whether or not you can charge your target. Furthermore, after you have attempted at least one overrun with Charge Through, you can expend one use of mythic power as a free action to attempt another overrun against a different opponent in the path of the same charge.
975|You receive a +2 bonus on checks made to overrun a foe. This bonus stacks with the bonus granted by Improved Overrun. Whenever you overrun opponents, they provoke attacks of opportunity if they are knocked prone by your overrun.  Normal: Creatures knocked prone by your overrun do not provoke an attack of opportunity.
976|You gain a bonus equal to half your tier on checks to overrun, and to your CMD when an opponent tries to overrun you. These bonuses stack with those granted by Improved Overrun.  Furthermore, you can make an attack of opportunity against any creature that attempts to overrun you, unless it also has this feat.
977|You do not provoke an attack of opportunity when performing a sunder combat maneuver. In addition, you receive a +2 bonus on checks made to sunder an item. You also receive a +2 bonus to your Combat Maneuver Defense whenever an opponent tries to sunder your gear.  Normal: You provoke an attack of opportunity when performing a sunder combat maneuver.
978|You receive a +2 bonus on checks made to sunder an item. This bonus stacks with the bonus granted by Improved Sunder. Whenever you sunder to destroy a weapon, shield, or suit of armor, any excess damage is applied to the item's wielder. No damage is transferred if you decide to leave the item with 1 hit point.
979|You gain a bonus equal to half your tier on checks to sunder, and to your CMD when an opponent tries to sunder an object used by you. These bonuses stack with those granted by Improved Sunder.  Furthermore, you can make an attack of opportunity against any creature that attempts to sunder an object used by you, unless it also has this feat.
980|Whenever you score a critical hit with a melee attack, you can sunder your opponent's weapon, in addition to the normal damage dealt by the attack. If your confirmation roll exceeds your opponent's CMD, you may deal damage to your opponent's weapon as if from the sunder combat maneuver (roll normal damage to the weapon separately). This does not provoke an attack of opportunity.  Normal: You must perform a sunder combat maneuver to sunder an opponent's weapon.  Special: You can only apply the effects of one of the following feats to a given critical hit: Bull Rush Strike, Disarming Strike, Repositioning Strike, Sundering Strike, or Tripping Strike. You may choose to use this feat after you make your confirmation roll.
981|When you reduce a robot to 0 hit points or destroy a technological item possessed by an enemy, you receive a +2 morale bonus on ability checks, attack rolls, saving throws, and skill checks for a number of rounds equal to your Wisdom bonus (minimum 1 round). You receive this bonus for destroying an unattended object so long as it was in the possession of an enemy within the last round.
982|When you use Power Attack, you gain a +3 bonus on melee damage rolls instead of +2. When your base attack bonus reaches +4 and every 4 points thereafter, the amount of bonus damage increases by +3 instead of +2. In addition, the bonus damage from this feat is doubled on a critical hit, before it's multiplied by the weapon's critical multiplier.  You can expend one use of mythic power when you activate Power Attack to ignore the penalties on melee attack rolls and combat maneuver checks for 1 minute.
983|When you hit a creature your size or smaller with a two-handed weapon attack modified by the Power Attack feat, you can choose to push the target 5 feet directly away from you instead of dealing the extra damage from Power Attack. If you score a critical hit, you can instead push the target 10 feet directly away from you. This movement does not provoke attacks of opportunities, and the target must end this move in a safe space it can stand in. You choose which effect to apply after the attack roll has been made, but before the damage is rolled.
984|While raging and using Power Attack, you can spend 3 additional rounds of your rage as a swift action to add your Constitution bonus on damage rolls for melee attacks or thrown weapon attacks you make on your turn. If you are using the weapon two-handed, instead add 1-1/2 times your Constitution bonus. This bonus damage is not multiplied on a critical hit.
985|When you use Power Attack while raging or while using raging song, you take an additional –1 penalty on melee attack rolls and combat maneuver checks, and you gain an additional +2 bonus on melee damage rolls. Modify this damage bonus appropriately based on the type of weapon you are using, as normal for Power Attack.
986|As a free action, you can make your regeneration stop working for 1 minute and gain a +2 enhancement bonus to your Strength. You lose your regeneration ability while you benefit from this bonus to Strength and for 1 minute afterward. You can end this ability early as a free action. You can activate this ability only if your regeneration is functioning.
987|When you take a full-attack action while wielding a two-handed weapon, you can choose to reduce the damage by 1/2 to gain a +4 shield bonus to AC and CMD until the beginning of your next turn. The reduction in damage applies until the beginning of your next turn.
988|When you attack an inanimate, unattended object, you ignore the first 5 points of its hardness. You also receive a +5 bonus on Strength checks made to knock down or break open doors.  Special: The benefits of this feat do not apply to sunder attempts or attacks against constructs, only attacks on inanimate, unattended objects.
989|You can choose to take a –5 penalty on all melee attack rolls and combat maneuver checks to stun targets you hit with your melee attacks for 1 round. A successful Fortitude save negates the effect. The DC of this save is 10 + your base attack bonus. You must choose to use this feat before making the attack roll, and its effects last until your next turn.
990|You can attempt to disarm a trap by striking it with a melee weapon instead of making a Disable Device check. As a full-round action, make a melee attack against an Armor Class equal to the trap's Disable Device DC. If you miss, the trap activates. If you hit, roll damage. If this damage is at least half the trap's Disable Device DC, you disable the trap. If this damage is less than half the trap's Disable Device DC, the trap activates. You can only attempt this on nonmagical traps. You must be able to reach some part of the trap with your attack in order to use this feat. At the GM's discretion, some traps may not be susceptible to this feat.
991|When in wild shape, treat your size as one category larger for the purpose of calculating CMB, CMD, carrying capacity, and any size-based special attacks you use or that are used against you (such as grab, swallow whole, and trample).
992|You can apply the giant simple template (quick rules version, from Pathfinder RPG Bestiary 295) to any form you take with wild shape. This replaces the benefit from Powerful Shape.  As a free action, you can expend one use of mythic power to combine the benefit from this feat with the benefit from non-mythic Powerful Shape for a number of rounds equal to your tier.
993|Your tongue attack gains the pull special ability. At the start of your turn, if your tongue is attached to a target of your size or smaller and you succeed at a combat maneuver check, you can pull the target 5 feet closer to you as free action.
994|You can use your tactician ability to grant allies a teamwork feat one additional time per day.  Special: You can gain Practiced Tactician multiple times. Its effects stack.
995|Whenever you and an ally who also has this feat are flanking the same the creature, you deal an additional 1d6 points of precision damage with each successful melee attack. This bonus damage stacks with other sources of precision damage, such as sneak attack. This bonus damage is not multiplied on a critical hit.
996|Choose two Craft, Perform, or Profession skills in any combination (two Craft skills, a Craft skill and a Perform skill, and so on). You receive a +2 bonus on checks with these skills. If you have 10 or more ranks in any one of these skills, the bonus increases to +4 for that skill.  Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to two new skills.
997|While prone, you can use a sling to make ranged attacks.  Normal: Crossbows and firearms are the only ranged weapons that can be used while prone.
998|If you are nonevil and worship a nonevil deity, whenever you cast a beneficial spell on an ally you gain a +1 sacred bonus to AC for 1 round per spell level. If you are evil or worship an evil deity, whenever you cast a harmful spell on an enemy you gain a +1 profane bonus to AC for 1 round per spell level. Casting a spell on yourself does not count unless it also affects an ally.  Goal: Convert an appropriate number of creatures to the worship of your deity.  Completion
999|Once per day, you can enter a deep trance to receive a vision of the future. The trance lasts for 10 minutes, during which time you can take no other actions. If you are interrupted, you must begin again. When you come out of the trance, you know whether a particular action in the immediate future will bring good or bad results, as an augury spell with a 70% chance of success.
1000|You can use Prophetic Visionary's augury ability at will, spending 10 minutes in a deep trance each time. Your chance of a successful augury increases by 1% per tier. A successful augury made by using this feat also grants you the benefits of guidance, but the bonus is equal to your tier and is an insight bonus instead of a competence bonus.
1001|You gain access to occult skill unlocks for any skills in which you have ranks. If you have no ranks in the appropriate skill, you can't use the occult skill unlock, even if that skill can be used untrained.  Normal: You must have the ability to cast psychic spells in order to use occult skill unlocks.
1002|You can use either Perception or Sense Motive when reading an emotion aura with the read aura occult skill unlock. Reading a creature's emotion aura takes you only a full-round action instead of 10 minutes, and if you succeed at your check, you also determine whether that creature is currently affected by a fear or mind-affecting effect and the relative strength of that effect (minor, moderate, strong, as defined in detect magic). You don't learn the source of the effect or the actual effect.  You can also use the read aura occult skill unlock to read emotion auras more than once per day by opening your innate mental defenses. For 1 minute after you use this feat, you take a –4 penalty on saving throws against fear and mind-affecting effects (regardless of whether you succeeded at the check). During this time, you're also unable to attempt to read emotion auras. Using this feat doesn't use up your one daily use of the read aura unlock, which you can still use either to read another type of aura or to read an emotion aura without taking the penalty associated with this feat.
1003|You gain the ability to cast a 0-level knack from the psychic class's spell list. You can cast this spell three times per day as a spell-like ability. The caster level for this ability is equal to your character level, and the save DC is equal to 10 + your Intelligence modifier.  Special: You can choose this feat multiple times, choosing a different knack each time.
1004|You gain the ability to cast a 1st-level psychic spell from the psychic class's spell list. You can cast this spell twice per day as a spell-like ability. The caster level for this ability is equal to your character level, and the save DC is equal to 11 + your Intelligence modifier.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times, choosing a different spell each time.
1005|You gain an extra pool of manifestation points with a number of points equal to 1/2 your character level. You can use these points at any time during a psychic duel. When you are not participating in a psychic duel, you can spend 1 of these extra manifestation points as a swift action to gain a +1 bonus on saving throws against psychic spells until the start of your next turn, or 3 points as a swift action to gain a +2 bonus on saving throws against psychic spells until the start of your next turn. This pool refreshes at the start of each day.
1006|Each time you enter a psychic duel, you gain a number of temporary hit points equal to your manifesting level (see Psychic Duels). These temporary hit points last until the end of the psychic duel.
1007|As an additional use of the faith healing skill unlock, you can attempt to manipulate a creature's psychic form to heal damage to its physical form. This works as the treat deadly wounds use of the Heal skill, but also grants the creature a number of temporary hit points equal to the amount of damage healed. These temporary hit points last for 1 hour. Psychic healing doesn't require a healer's kit. A creature can benefit from psychic healing only once per day, and can't benefit from both this ability and treat deadly wounds in the same day.
1008|Choose two occult skill unlocks. You can use each of those one additional time per day (or per week, in the case of automatic writing). You must have at least 1 rank in the skills associated with the chosen occult skill unlocks.
1009|You gain a +2 bonus on checks to use occult skill unlocks. If you have more than 10 ranks in the base skill, this bonus increases to +4. This bonus doesn't apply on other checks using the base skills—only on checks for occult skill unlocks.
1010|While in a psychic duel, when you create an offensive manifestation that can be negated or halved only with a successful Will saving throw, if your opponent fails that Will saving throw, its mental mask is shattered, revealing the opponent's true form.  Special: If you possess the Third Eye feat, your opponent's mental mask is shattered even on a successful Will saving throw.
1011|You gain a +5 bonus on checks to notice haunts. In addition, when you target an incorporeal creature with a corporeal spell or effect that doesn't deal damage, you have a 75% chance of affecting the target.  Normal: Corporeal spells and effects that don't deal damage have only a 50% chance of affecting an incorporeal creature.
1012|Once per day as a standard action, you can open a spiritual third eye positioned on your forehead between and above your normal eyes. You can keep this eye open for up to 1 minute per character level you possess. This duration doesn't have to be consecutive, but it must be used in 1-minute increments. Once per day while your third eye is open, you can use the read aura occult skill unlock after 1 minute of intense concentration. This is in addition to the normal daily use of read aura (which still takes 10 minutes). While your third eye is open, you gain a +4 bonus on Perception checks to read auras, as well as a +8 bonus on Perception checks to detect invisible creatures or objects or see through magical disguises (both illusory ones and those provided by the change shape ability or polymorph magic). When you close your third eye, either voluntarily or at the end of the time limit, you are fatigued for an amount of time equal to the length of time you kept your third eye open.  Normal: Without this feat, you must spend 10 minutes in intense concentration to read one of a creature or item's four auras, and you can do so only once per day.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Its effects don't stack. Each time you take the feat, you increase the number of times per day you can open your third eye (and read an aura) by one.
1013|You gain a +4 sacred bonus to saving throws against poison.
1014|You may channel energy as a move action by spending 2 daily uses of that ability.
1015|When the damage from an attack or an effect would reduce you to 0 or fewer hit points, you can expend one use of channel energy (of a form that would heal you) or lay on hands as an immediate action to heal yourself. The healing affects only you, even if it would normally affect others.
1016|You can draw a weapon as a free action instead of as a move action. You can draw a hidden weapon (see the Sleight of Hand skill) as a move action.  A character who has selected this feat may throw weapons at his full normal rate of attacks (much like a character with a bow).  Alchemical items, potions, scrolls, and wands cannot be drawn quickly using this feat.  Normal: Without this feat, you may draw a weapon as a move action, or (if your base attack bonus is +1 or higher) as a free action as part of movement. Without this feat, you can draw a hidden weapon as a standard action.
1017|When you succeed at a Diplomacy check to change a creature's attitude, you can draw a weapon and make a single melee attack against that creature as an immediate action. If you changed your target's attitude to friendly or better, your target is considered flat-footed against this attack. If the target survives, it takes a –2 penalty on its initiative check for this combat.  Once you attack a creature, its attitude becomes hostile.
1018|When you make a melee attack and successfully use your spellstrike ability against an opponent denied his Dexterity bonus to AC, you can spend 3 points from your arcane pool to maximize the spell delivered through your spellstrike as if using the Maximize Spell metamagic feat.
1019|You can use Quick Draw to draw items of any kind, not just weapons, provided they are stored or concealed on your person. As a move action, you can expend one use of mythic power to retrieve up to two hidden items. You must have two hands free to do so.
1020|While you are in the same square as a willing ally who also has this feat, you can draw a weapon from that creature as a free action or draw a hidden weapon or any other object as a move action. You can also take a held object from a willing ally in the same square as you as a free action. Drawing or taking an object (but not a weapon) in this way provokes an attack of opportunity.
1021|You can draw two potions or other beverages—mundane or magical—from a pouch, bandolier, or similar holder (but not from a backpack) as a move action. As a standard action, you can drink two potions or other beverages. You must have two free hands to use this feat.
1022|If on your first turn of combat you draw a melee weapon to attack an opponent within your reach, you can spend a swift action to make a Bluff check to feint against that opponent.
1023|When you take this feat, choose one of your blessings that normally requires a standard action to use. You can expend two of your daily uses of blessings to deliver that blessing (regardless of whether it's a minor or a major effect) as a swift action instead.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you do, you choose a different blessing.
1024|Casting a quickened spell is a swift action. You can perform another action, even casting another spell, in the same round as you cast a quickened spell. A spell whose casting time is more than 1 round or 1 full-round action cannot be quickened.  A quickened spell uses up a spell slot four levels higher than the spell's actual level. Casting a quickened spell doesn't provoke an attack of opportunity.  Special: You can apply the effects of this feat to a spell cast spontaneously, so long as it has a casting time that is not more than 1 full-round action, without increasing the spell's casting time.
1025|Choose one of the creature's spell-like abilities, subject to the restrictions described in this feat. The creature can use the chosen spell-like ability as a quickened spell-like ability three times per day (or less, if the ability is normally usable only once or twice per day).  Using a quickened spell-like ability is a swift action that does not provoke an attack of opportunity. The creature can perform another action—including the use of another spell-like ability (but not another swift action)—in the same round that it uses a quickened spell-like ability. The creature may use only one quickened spell-like ability per round.  The creature can only select a spell-like ability duplicating a spell with a level less than or equal to 1/2 its caster level (round down) – 4. For a summary, see the table below.  A spell-like ability that duplicates a spell with a casting time greater than 1 full round cannot be quickened.  Normal: The use of a spell-like ability normally requires a standard action (at the very least) and provokes an attack of opportunity.  Special: This feat can be taken multiple times. Each time it is taken, the creature can apply it to a different one of its spell-like abilities.  Empowered and Quickened Spell-Like Abilities Spell LevelCaster Level to EmpowerCaster Level to Quicken  04th8th 1st6th10th 2nd8th12th 3rd10th14th 4th12th16th 5th14th18th 6th16th20th 7th18th— 8th20th— 9th——
1026|You can wild shape as a move action or a swift action. However, you are limited to forms available to a druid two levels lower when changing form as a move action, or four levels lower as a swift action.
1027|Choose another humanoid race. You count as both human and that race for any effects related to race. For example, if you choose dwarf, you are considered both a human and a dwarf for the purpose of taking traits, feats, how spells and magic items affect you, and so on.
1028|You gain a single racial trait of your choice from the race you picked when you took non-mythic Racial Heritage. That racial trait can't modify your size or ability scores. You also gain the racial language of the race (if any) if you don't already know it. For races with multiple racial languages, you gain all of them.
1029|When you hit with a charge attack, you can expend all of your remaining uses of lay on hands to deal extra damage equal to 1d6 per use of lay on hands expended + your Charisma bonus. This damage comes from holy power and is not subject to damage reduction, energy immunities, or energy resistances.
1030|When you cast a bloodrager spell, as a swift action you can sacrifice some of your life force to augment the spell's potency. You can opt to take up to 1d6 points of damage per spell level of the spell you are casting, choosing the number of dice before rolling. You cannot overcome this damage in any way, and it cannot be taken from temporary hit points. For each of these damage dice you roll, the DC of the spell you are casting increases by 1.
1031|While you are bloodraging, if you successfully save against a damaging arcane spell that either targets you or includes you in its area, and you take no damage from that spell, you can absorb a portion of its arcane energy to replenish your bloodrage. You regain 1 round of bloodrage for every 2 levels of the spell you successfully saved against. You cannot use this feat to regain more rounds of bloodrage each day than your daily maximum number of rounds, nor can you ever exceed your maximum number of rounds.
1032|You gain the 1st-level bloodrager bloodline power for your bloodline. In addition, you gain the ability to enter a state similar to (but less powerful than) a bloodrager's bloodrage. You can enter this lesser bloodrage twice per day, for up to 4 rounds. During this lesser bloodrage, you gain a +2 morale bonus to Strength and Constitution, and no morale bonus on Will saving throws. Otherwise, this benefit is the same as the bloodrage class feature.  If you have more than one bloodline, you choose the bloodline this feat applies to when you take the feat.
1033|Select one rage power. Once per day as a free action, you can enter a state of fury and gain the effects of this rage power for 1 minute. If the rage power normally ends a barbarian rage when used, the ability ends after it's used and you immediately become fatigued. You don't otherwise become fatigued at the end of this ability's duration.  Your effective barbarian level for the purpose of qualifying for and using rage powers is equal to your total Hit Dice – 3. This feat doesn't grant any of the normal benefits or penalties of a barbarian's rage.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you do, choose another rage power and gain one additional use per day of this feat. Each time you activate this feat, you can use any or all of your rage powers gained from this feat.
1034|While in a bloodrage, you gain a bonus on concentration checks equal to the morale bonus granted to your Constitution by the bloodrage.
1035|While raging, whenever your attack reduces an opponent of a CR greater than or equal to your character level to –1 or fewer hit points, you gain 1 extra round of rage for that day. If that attack was a critical hit, you gain 1 additional extra round of rage for that day. Whenever you rest to renew your total number of rounds of rage per day, any extra rounds you still have from this feat are lost.
1036|While you are raging, fire and acid damage don't make your regeneration stop functioning on the round following the attack, and instead reduce the number of hit points regained by regeneration each round by 2 until the end of your next turn.  Normal: Acid and fire damage cause your regeneration to stop functioning on the round following the attack.
1037|Whenever you are raging, the morale bonus to your Constitution increases by +2. Your rage does not end if you become unconscious. While unconscious you must still expend rounds of rage per day each round.
1038|Once per day, you can take a full-round action to shift mental focus from one implement to another. You must be undisturbed and able to concentrate. If you take any damage during the transfer, you must succeed at a concentration check (DC = 10 + the number of points of damage taken) to complete the transfer. If you fail this check, you lose the points of mental focus instead of moving them from one implement to the other.  Normal: Shifting focus between two implements takes 1 minute of quiet contemplation.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you do, you gain an additional daily use of Rapid Focus Shift.
1039|The time required for you to reload your chosen type of crossbow is reduced to a free action (for a hand or light crossbow) or a move action (for a heavy crossbow). Reloading a crossbow still provokes an attack of opportunity.  If you have selected this feat for hand crossbow or light crossbow, you may fire that weapon as many times in a full-attack action as you could attack if you were using a bow.  Normal: A character without this feat needs a move action to reload a hand or light crossbow, or a full-round action to reload a heavy crossbow.  Special: You can gain Rapid Reload multiple times. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new type of crossbow.
1040|The time required for you to reload any type of crossbow is reduced to a free action, regardless of the type of crossbow used. You can fire a crossbow as many times in a full attack action as you could attack if you were using a bow. Reloading a crossbow for the type of crossbow you chose when you took Rapid Reload no longer provokes attacks of opportunity.  Special: Starting at 6th level, a ranger with the archery combat style may select Crossbow Mastery as a combat style feat.
1041|You gain the benefits of Rapid Reload with all crossbows and firearms, not just the one you originally chose when you gained that feat. As a swift action, you can expend one use of mythic power to gain the ability to reload crossbows and firearms without provoking attacks of opportunity for 1 minute.
1042|The time required for you to reload your chosen type of weapon is reduced to a free action (for a hand or light crossbow), a move action (for heavy crossbow or one-handed firearm), or a standard action (two-handed firearm). Reloading a crossbow or firearm still provokes attacks of opportunity. If you have selected this feat for a hand crossbow or light crossbow, you may fire that weapon as many times in a full-attack action as you could attack if you were using a bow.  Normal: A character without this feat needs a move action to reload a hand or light crossbow, a standard action to reload a one-handed firearm, or a full-round action to load a heavy crossbow or a two-handed firearm.  Special: You can gain Rapid Reload multiple times. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new type of crossbow or a new type of firearm.
1043|You can make a bite attack for 1d4 points of damage, plus your Strength modifier. You're considered proficient in this attack and can apply feats or effects appropriate to natural attacks to it. If used as part of a full attack action, the bite is considered a secondary attack and is made at your full base attack bonus –5, and adds half your Strength modifier to damage.
1044|You can alter a spell with a range of touch, close, or medium to increase its range to a higher range category, using the following order: touch, close, medium, and long. A reach spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell's actual level for each increase in range category. For example, a spell with a range of touch increased to long range uses up a spell slot three levels higher. Spells modified by this feat that require melee touch attacks instead require ranged touch attacks.  Spells that do not have a range of touch, close, or medium do not benefit from this feat.
1045|When you implant a trick, the subject gains a +2 morale bonus on initiative checks until the trick is triggered or its duration ends.
1046|When you implant a trick, you can grant the subject DR 1/— against nonlethal damage until the trick is triggered or its duration ends. This DR increases by 1 for every 5 mesmerist levels you possess.
1047|You can precisely mimic the physical features of any individual you have encountered. When you use your racial change shape ability, you can attempt to take the form of an individual, granting you a +10 circumstance bonus on Disguise checks made to fool others with your impersonation.
1048|When you succeed at the Acrobatics check to jump as part of your leaping lance class feature, you can remount your steed as a swift action.
1049|Whenever you reduce a foe to 0 or fewer hit points while you are raging or using raging song, you regain 1 round of rage or raging song (your choice if you have both abilities), as long as the number of Hit Dice that foe possesses is equal to or greater than 1/2 your character level. You cannot use this feat to regain more rounds of rage or raging song each day than your daily maximum number of rounds , nor can you ever exceed your maximum number of rounds.
1050|As an immediate action, you can add a +1 bonus to the result of an ability check, attack roll, saving throw, or skill check you have just rolled by becoming shaken for 1 minute. You must choose before the result is revealed.  Goal: Regain any lost class features and complete a quest to prove your worth. In the course of completing this quest, you must decisively defeat a challenging foe. The quest should relate in some fashion to the transgression that removed your class abilities or led to you being disgraced.  Completion
1051|The maximum delay for your delayed bombs increases to a number of minutes equal to your level.  If you have line of effect to your delayed bomb, you may detonate it earlier than its preset time by making a DC 20 Intelligence check; the DC increases by +1 for every 10 feet of distance between you and the bomb.
1052|If you hit a creature with two claw attacks in the same turn, the second claw attack deals an additional 1d6 points of damage. This damage is precision damage and is not multiplied on a critical hit. You can use this feat once per round.
1053|You deal rend damage if you hit with half the normal natural attacks your rend requires. For example, a troll that has this feat can rend when it hits with one claw attack, while a girallon that has this feat must hit one target with two claw attacks to rend. You can only make this rend attack once per round.
1054|Whenever you successfully rend an opponent, you deal an extra 1d6 damage. This damage is not multiplied on a critical hit.
1055|Whenever you rend an opponent, you deal  1d6 bleed damage to that opponent. This is an addition to the effects of the rend.
1056|While your armor or shield is under the effect of your divine bond or your sacred armor ability, you gain an amount of damage reduction equal to your armor's enhancement bonus (including the bonus from your divine bond or sacred armor) against the first attack to strike you in each round. An adamantine weapon overcomes this damage reduction, but any attack against you made with such a weapon does not count against this effect's duration.
1057|Once per day, when a creature confirms a critical hit against you, you may treat half the damage as nonlethal damage. You cannot use this ability if you are immune to nonlethal damage. When your base attack bonus reaches +10, you may use this ability an additional time per day.
1058|If you are knocked unconscious, fall asleep, or are killed, your eidolon remains for a number of rounds equal to your summoner level before it is banished. If you are brought back to consciousness before this duration expires, your eidolon is not banished. If the duration expires before you are brought back to consciousness, your eidolon is banished normally.  Normal: An eidolon is immediately banished when its summoner is unconscious, asleep, or killed.
1059|While raging, when under the effect of a fear effect that allows a saving throw, you can make a new saving throw against that fear effect at the start of each of your turns before acting. If you make the new save, the fear effect ends.
1060|Each time you use your lay on hands ability, you gain a +1 sacred bonus on all attack rolls for 1 round.
1061|Each time you use your lay on hands ability to heal a creature other than yourself, you heal a number of hit points equal to your Charisma bonus. This ability has no effect if you use lay on hands to harm undead.
1062|If you cast a cure spell while you have a judgment active, each target regains 1 extra hit point from the cure spell + 1 hit point per three inquisitor levels you possess.
1063|The frost of your cold spell clings to the target, impeding it for a short time. A rime spell causes creatures that takes cold damage from the spell to become entangled for a number of rounds equal to the original level of the spell.  This feat only affects spells with the cold descriptor. A rime spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell's actual level.
1064|You can choose to take a –1 penalty to AC to gain a +2 bonus on melee damage rolls against creatures two or more size categories larger than you. When your base attack bonus reaches +4 and every 4 levels thereafter, the penalty increases by â1 and the damage bonus increases by 2. The bonus damage is multiplied in the case of a critical hit. You can only choose to use this feat when you declare that you are making an attack action or a full-attack action with a melee weapon. The effects last until your next turn.
1065|You gain a +1 bonus on attack and damage rolls against creatures with the robot subtype. Additionally, you gain a +1 dodge bonus to your AC and a +1 bonus on saving throws against attacks and effects from robots. If you have at least 11 ranks in Knowledge (engineering), these bonuses increase to +2. If you have at least 17 ranks in Knowledge (engineering), these bonuses increase to +3.  Special: If you have constructs as a favored enemy, you can use your favored enemy bonus toward constructs in place of the bonus granted by this feat if it's larger. These bonuses do not stack with those granted by other abilities that allow you to add your favored enemy bonus to AC or on saving throws.
1066|When running, you move five times your normal speed (if wearing medium, light, or no armor and carrying no more than a medium load) or four times your speed (if wearing heavy armor or carrying a heavy load). If you make a jump after a running start (see the Acrobatics skill description), you gain a +4 bonus on your Acrobatics check. While running, you retain your Dexterity bonus to your Armor Class.  Normal: You move four times your speed while running (if wearing medium, light, or no armor and carrying no more than a medium load) or three times your speed (if wearing heavy armor or carrying a heavy load), and you lose your Dexterity bonus to AC.
1067|When running, you move seven times your normal speed if wearing medium, light, or no armor and carrying no more than a medium load, or six times your speed if wearing heavy armor or carrying a heavy load. When making a jump after a running start, you gain an additional bonus equal to your tier + 4 on your Acrobatics check.  You can run normally for a number of rounds equal to your Constitution score plus your tier, but after that you must succeed at Constitution checks to continue running.
1068|When using summon monster to summon creatures whose alignment subtype or subtypes exactly match your aura, you may cast the spell as a standard action instead of with a casting time of 1 round.
1069|Whenever you use a bludgeoning weapon to deal nonlethal sneak attack damage, you gain a bonus on your damage roll equal to the number of sneak attack damage dice you rolled.
1070|Whenever you use a bludgeoning weapon to deal nonlethal sneak attack damage to a flat-footed opponent, roll your sneak attack dice twice, totaling the results as your nonlethal sneak attack damage for that attack.
1071|When you hit a creature using the Vital Strike feat or confirm a critical hit against an opponent, add your sneak attack damage to the damage from the attack. This feat has no effect on attacks that already allow you to add sneak attack damage.
1072|You gain a +2 bonus on Intimidate checks. You also gain a +2 morale bonus on Will saving throws while adjacent to an ally with this feat. When you charge, if you started the charge adjacent to an ally with this feat, you retain the bonus on Will saves until the start of your next turn.
1073|When a creature fails a saving throw against a scarring spell, for the next 24 hours that creature takes a –2 penalty on saving throws against emotion and fear effects you create, and a –1 penalty on saving throws against other emotion and fear effects. Penalties from multiple scarring spells don't stack. This metamagic feat can be applied only to spells with the emotion or fear descriptor. A scarring spell uses up a spell slot 1 level higher than the spell's actual level.
1074|You gain a +2 bonus on Appraise checks. You may determine the most valuable item in a hoard as a standard action and gain an additional +2 bonus on the Appraise check to do so. In addition, if you fail an Appraise check by 5 or more, you treat the check as if you had failed by less than 5.  Normal: Determining the most valuable object in a treasure hoard takes 1 full-round action.
1075|When your check for using a piece of timeworn technology results in a glitch, you can roll again. You must choose to reroll before determining the specific glitch, and must take the second result, even if it's worse. When you use timeworn technology, it doesn't automatically glitch on a natural 1.
1076|You gain a +2 bonus on saving throws against fire attacks and spells with the fire descriptor or light descriptor. As a swift action, you can make up to two held manufactured metallic weapons become red-hot for 1 round, dealing 1 additional point of fire damage with a successful hit. This does not stack with other effects that add fire damage to weapons, such as the flaming weapon special ability.
1077|Your bonus on saves against fire attacks and spells with the fire descriptor or light descriptor increases to +4. When you use Scorching Weapons, the affected weapons deal an additional 1d6 points of fire damage instead of 1, and when you are grappling, you deal this damage to your grappling opponent on your turn.
1078|When you use Scorching Weapons, on your turn as a free action, you may create an aura of heat that lasts for 1 round. This aura deals 1d6 points of fire damage to any creature that begins its turn adjacent to you.
1079|You can create a scroll of any spell that you know. Scribing a scroll takes 2 hours if its base price is 250 gp or less, otherwise scribing a scroll takes 1 day for each 1,000 gp in its base price. To scribe a scroll, you must use up raw materials costing half of this base price. See the magic item creation rules in Magic Items for more information.
1080|You gain a +2 bonus on Acrobatics, Climb, and Swim checks.
1081|Select a creature type from the Ranger Favored Enemies table (Core Rulebook 64). When you designate a creature of this type as your studied target and hit it with a melee or ranged weapon attack, your favored target bonus on damage rolls against it is doubled.
1082|When you succeed at a sneak attack against a creature you selected as the target of your Seething Hatred feat, you use d8s to roll sneak attack damage instead of d6s.
1083|When your foe is using Power Attack and you successfully use the opportune parry and riposte deed to parry its attack and then respond with a riposte, you add your foe's current bonus on damage rolls from Power Attack to your own damage roll, but you do not take the penalty to hit from your foe's Power Attack.
1084|When you channel energy, you can choose a number of targets in the area up to your Charisma modifier. These targets are not affected by your channeled energy.  Normal: All targets in a 30-foot burst are affected when you channel energy. You can only choose whether or not you are affected.
1085|You can use a standard action to touch an ally and expend one of your daily uses of channel energy to create a repository of positive energy within that ally. This repository contains the same number and type of dice as normal for your channel energy feature, and it lasts for 1 minute. An ally who has such a repository can use an immediate action to roll the repository's dice and regain a number of hit points equal to the result. If an ally who has such a repository is reduced to negative hit points, the repository triggers, allowing the ally to heal without using an action.
1086|When you channel energy, the damage you heal or deal increases by a number of points equal to twice the number of targets you excluded from your channeled energy. You can expend one use of mythic power to increase the number of targets you exclude from your channeled energy by half your tier.
1087|When casting a selective spell with an area effect and a duration of instantaneous, you can choose a number of targets in the area equal to the ability score modifier used to determine bonus spells of the same type (Charisma for bards, oracles, paladins, sorcerers, and summoners; Intelligence for witches and wizards; Wisdom for clerics, druids, inquisitors, and rangers). These targets are excluded from the effects of your spell. A selective spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell's actual level.  Spells that do not have an area of effect or a duration of instantaneous do not benefit from this feat.
1088|You get a +2 bonus on all Heal checks and Survival checks. If you have 10 or more ranks in one of these skills, the bonus increases to +4 for that skill.
1089|The bonus on Heal and Survival skill checks from Self-Sufficient increases by 2. In addition, you can expend one use of mythic power to treat a Heal or Survival check as if you had rolled a natural 20. You must decide to use this ability before making the roll.
1090|When sharing the senses of your eidolon, you gain a +4 competence bonus on Perception checks for the duration of your bond senses ability.
1091|You gain the compression universal monster ability, allowing you to move through an area as small as one-quarter your space without squeezing, or one-eighth your space when squeezing.
1092|When you cast spells of the shadow subschool or spells with the darkness or shadow descriptor, you are considered two levels higher when determining the duration of those spells.
1093|You gain the ability to use shadow walk an additional time each day.  Special: You may select this feat multiple times. Its effects stack.
1094|You can deal precision damage, such as sneak attack damage, against targets with concealment (but not total concealment).
1095|You can expend one use of your shadow walk spell-like ability to use dimension door as a spell-like ability. Your start and end locations for this ability must be in dim light or darkness.
1096|Whenever you are in an area of dim light or darkness, you can move at full speed using Stealth without taking the normal –5 penalty for doing so.
1097|When you are adjacent to one or more allies who also have this feat, you gain a +1 bonus on saving throws per such ally (maximum +4).
1098|Being observed drives you to excel. When you're in a conflict that is being observed by others not involved in the conflict, you gain a +1 bonus on attack rolls and skill checks.  Goal: You can complete this goal in one of two fashions. First, thwart a chosen foe in a fashion that clearly establishes your superiority to the general public. Second, prove your worth another way, like gaining a title or becoming the chosen hero of a region.  Completion
1099|A creature you deal damage to has difficulty using or maintaining polymorph effects until the end your next turn. To use a polymorph effect it must make a concentration check (DC 15 + twice the level of the effect). If you deal damage to an opponent under a polymorph effect, that opponent must succeed at a Will saving throw (DC 10 + 1/2 your character level + your Wisdom modifier) or be forced back to its original form. If you score a critical hit against such an opponent, no saving throw is allowed.
1100|Your levels of druid stack with your ranger levels for determining when you select your next favored enemy. Also, your ranger levels stack with your druid levels in determining the number of times per day you can use your wild shape class feature, up to a maximum of eight times per day.
1101|If you are a multiclassed druid, your wild shape ability is calculated as though your druid level were four higher, to a maximum level equal to your character level.  Special: This feat has no effect if you are not a multiclassed druid.
1102|As a move action, you can grant all friendly creatures within 30 feet who can see or hear you a +2 bonus on Perception checks for a number of rounds equal to your Wisdom modifier (minimum 1 round).
1103|You can pronounce a single judgment and extend its effects to one adjacent ally instead of pronouncing a second judgment. Similarly, once you have the third judgment class feature, you can pronounce a single judgment and extend its effects to two adjacent allies instead of pronouncing a second and third judgment. Alternatively, once you have the third judgment class feature, you can pronounce two judgments and extend the effects of one judgment to one adjacent ally instead of pronouncing a third judgment. Once an ally has gained the effects of your judgment, he need not remain adjacent to you to continue gaining that benefit. You can spend a free action to end this benefit for one or both allies. If your judgment bonus is suspended for you, it is suspended for all allies, but when it resumes, it does so for all allies.
1104|As a move action, you can grant all friendly creatures within 30 feet who can see or hear you a +2 bonus on Bluff or Intimidate checks (choose which skill to affect each time you use this ability) for a number of rounds equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum 1 round).
1105|While your phantom is confined within your consciousness, you gain a +2 bonus on saving throws against death effects, energy drain, and possession. In addition, once per day when you fail a saving throw against a death effect or possession effect or gain a negative level, as an immediate action you can shunt that effect into the phantom's section of your soul instead. When you do so, you are not affected by that effect, but you also don't gain any of the normal benefits of your shared consciousness ability and can't manifest your phantom in any way for the normal duration of the spell or effect shunted into the phantom's consciousness. The phantom suffers the full effect you transferred, and as long as your phantom continues to suffer from the effect, you cannot shunt a death or possession effect or negative level onto your phantom.
1106|When you and your companion creature have this feat, your companion creature is adjacent to you or sharing your square, and you receive the benefit of a healing spell (whether from yourself or another source), you can divide the hit points healed evenly between yourself and your companion creature.
1107|You gain two claw attacks. These are primary natural attacks that deal 1d4 points of damage.
1108|You count as one size smaller than normal for the purpose of squeezing.
1109|You gain a burrow speed equal to 1/2 your base speed. You can burrow through sand, dirt, clay, gravel, or similar materials, but not solid stone. You do not leave a hole behind, nor is your passage marked on the surface.
1110|You receive a +4 racial bonus on Perception skill checks. This replaces the normal bonus from the keen senses racial trait.  Normal: The keen senses trait normally grants a +2 racial bonus on Perception skill checks.
1111|You gain a bite attack. This is a primary natural attack that deals 1d3 points of damage.
1112|Damage dealt by your bite attack ignores an amount of hardness equal to 3 plus half your character level. You can spend a full-round action to deal double your bite damage to an unattended, inanimate object.  Special: If you have the Burrowing Teeth feat, you can burrow through solid stone at a speed of 5 feet per 10 minutes.
1113|Whenever you are adjacent to an ally who also has this feat, you receive a +4 competence bonus on concentration checks. If your ally is wielding a buckler or a light shield, this bonus increases by +1. If your ally is wielding a heavy shield or a tower shield, this bonus increases by +2. Finally, if an enemy threatening you and your ally has the Disruptive feat, or another ability that increases the DC of concentration checks, the amount of the increase is halved.
1114|When you use a shield (except a tower shield), the shield's armor check penalty only applies to Strength- and Dexterity-based skills.  Normal: When you are using a shield with which you are not proficient, you take the shield's armor check penalty on attack rolls and on all skill checks that involve moving.  Special: Barbarians, bards, clerics, druids, fighters, paladins, and rangers all automatically have Shield Proficiency as a bonus feat. They need not select it.
1115|When you perform a shield bash, you may still apply the shield's shield bonus to your AC.  Normal: Without this feat, a character that performs a shield bash loses the shield's shield bonus to AC until his next turn (see Equipment).
1116|Any opponents hit by your shield bash are also hit with a free bull rush attack, substituting your attack roll for the combat maneuver check (see Combat). This bull rush does not provoke an attack of opportunity. Opponents who cannot move back due to a wall or other surface are knocked prone after moving the maximum possible distance. You may choose to move with your target if you are able to take a 5-foot step or to spend an action to move this turn.
1117|When using Shield Slam to bull rush, an opponent knocked prone because of an intervening wall or other surface also takes damage from the collision. The damage dealt is equal to 1d6 points per 2 tiers you possess. As an immediate action, you can expend one use of mythic power to add your tier to your combat maneuver checks when resolving a bull rush made due to Shield Slam.
1118|You do not suffer any penalties on attack rolls made with a shield while you are wielding another weapon. Add your shield's enhancement bonus to attacks and damage rolls made with the shield as if it was a weapon enhancement bonus.
1119|Whenever you score a critical hit with a melee weapon, you can make a shield bash attack against the same target using the same bonus as a free action.
1120|Grant shield bonus to an adjacent ally
1121|The shield bonus you grant an ally with Saving Shield increases to +3. If you use Saving Shield to successfully negate an attack against an adjacent ally, you can immediately make an attack of opportunity against the attacker so long as it is within your melee reach.
1122|Increase the AC bonus granted by any shield you are using by 1.
1123|When you use the total defense action while using a light, heavy, or tower shield, you can provide a cover bonus to AC against all attacks to an adjacent ally your size or smaller. This cover bonus is equal to your shield's shield bonus and lasts until the beginning of your next turn. Your shield does not provide a cover bonus to Reflex saves.
1124|Increase the AC bonus granted by any shield you are using by 1. This bonus stacks with the bonus granted by Shield Focus.
1125|You must be using a light, heavy, or tower shield to use this feat. Once per round when you would normally be hit with an attack from a ranged weapon (not including spell effects, natural attacks, or massive ranged weapons), you may deflect it so that you take no damage, as if you had the Deflect Arrows feat. You must be aware of the attack and not flat-footed.
1126|When using Missile Shield, you can deflect an additional number of ranged attacks per round equal to half your tier. You can expend one use of mythic power as an immediate action to deflect a single ray from a ray spell or effect targeting you.
1127|You must be using a light, heavy, or tower shield to use this feat. Once per round when you would normally be hit with a ranged touch attack (including rays and similar magical effects), you may deflect it so that you take no damage from it. Your shield suffers the full effects of the spell or effect, if applicable.
1128|Add your shield bonus and your shield's enhancement bonus to your touch AC. As an immediate action, you can expend one use of mythic power to add your shield bonus and your shield's enhancement bonus on a Fortitude or Reflex save just before you roll it.
1129|Choose one type of shield (buckler, light, heavy, or tower shield). With the selected shield, you gain a +2 bonus to your Armor Class against critical hit confirmation rolls. In addition, you may add your base shield bonus (including the bonus from Shield Focus but not including enhancement bonuses) to your CMD.  Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new type of shield.
1130|Choose one type of shield (buckler, light, heavy, or tower shield) for which you possess the Shield Specialization feat. With the selected shield, you gain a +2 bonus to your Armor Class against critical hit confirmation rolls (this bonus stacks with that from Shield Specialization). In addition, once per day you may negate a critical hit, and damage is instead rolled normally.  Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new type of shield.
1131|Whenever you are wielding a shield and are adjacent to an ally wielding a shield who also has this feat, the AC bonus from your shield increases, depending on the shield wielded by your ally. If your ally is wielding a buckler or a light shield, your shield bonus increases by +1. If your ally is wielding a heavy shield or a tower shield, your shield bonus increases by +2. You keep these bonuses even if your ally loses his shield bonus due to making a shield bash attack. If an adjacent ally with this feat uses a tower shield to grant total cover, you also benefit if an attack targeting you passes through the edge of the shield (Core Rulebook 153).
1132|When you use a tower shield, the shield's armor check penalty only applies to Strength and Dexterity-based skills.  Normal: A character using a shield with which he is not proficient takes the shield's armor check penalty on attack rolls and on all skill checks that involve moving, including Ride.  Special: Fighters automatically have Tower Shield Proficiency as a bonus feat. They need not select it.
1133|You can modify a spell to sicken a creature damaged by the spell. When a creature takes damage from this spell, they become sickened for a number of rounds equal to the original level of the spell. If the spell allows a saving throw, a successful save negates the sickening effect. If the spell does not allow a save, the target can make a Fortitude save to negate the sickening effect. If the spell effect also causes the creature to become sickened, the duration of this metamagic effect is added on to the duration of the spell. A sickening spell uses up a spell slot two levels higher than the spell's actual level.  Spells that do not inflict damage do not benefit from this feat.
1134|When you lead a siege engine assembly crew, you grant all of its members a +4 competence bonus on checks to assemble or move the weapon. You also halve the time required to assemble a siege engine.
1135|You are considered to be proficient with all siege weapons. Also, when you are crew lead for a siege engine, you do not generate mishaps on the roll of a natural 1.  Normal: Each siege engine is an exotic weapon.
1136|If you are the crew lead on a siege engine, your crew can use move actions to load a siege engine. When you spend actions to aim a siege engine, you and your crew can use move actions instead of full-round actions to aim the siege engine (page 160).  Normal: Full-round actions are required to load and aim siege engines.
1137|You take no size penalty for aiming a direct-fire siege weapon larger than yourself. If you operate an indirect-fire siege weapon and miss, you misdirect fire by 1 square per range increment.  Normal: Direct-fire weapons impose a –2 attack roll penalty per size category by which the weapon is larger than the creature aiming it. An indirect-fire weapon that misses misdirects fire by 1d4 squares per range increment.
1138|Pick a deed that you have access to and that you must spend grit to perform. Once per round, you can perform this deed for 1 fewer grit point (minimum 0). You can reduce the cost of a deed in this way only if you have at least 1 grit point.
1139|Choose one skill. You gain the ability listed in that skill's 5 Ranks entry. As you gain more ranks in the chosen skill, you gain additional abilities. If you have 10 or more ranks in the chosen skill, you gain the appropriate abilities immediately. If your chosen skill is Craft, Knowledge, Perform, or Profession, you gain the listed powers only for one category of that skill, such as Craft (bows). This feat can be taken only once, but it stacks with the rogue's edge ability and the cutting edge rogue talent.
1140|When you kill a creature during a surprise round, you can attempt a Stealth check, opposed by the Perception checks of potential observers, to prevent them from noticing your action and subsequently identifying you as the assailant.
1141|A silent spell can be cast with no verbal components. Spells without verbal components are not affected. A silent spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell's actual level.  Special: Bard spells cannot be enhanced by this feat.
1142|You make attack rolls with simple weapons without penalty.  Normal: When using a weapon with which you are not proficient, you take a –4 penalty on attack rolls.  Special: All characters except for druids, monks, and wizards are automatically proficient with all simple weapons. They need not select this feat.
1143|You gain the detect evil class feature. You may use it or the detect undead class feature, but not at the same time.
1144|While you maintain a raging song, you gain fast healing equal to the Strength bonus your song provides, starting in the round after you begin the song. If you stop maintaining your song, the fast healing ends, even if the effects of your song persist.
1145|Your allies share in the fast healing granted by your Skald's Vigor, starting in the round when you begin your performance. They must be able to hear the performance. If you stop maintaining the song, the fast healing ends immediately, even if other effects of your song linger.
1146|You gain a +4 bonus on driving checks with your chosen vehicle.
1147|You can make an accelerate, decelerate, or turn action as a move action instead of a standard action. Furthermore, when stopping a vehicle, you subtract 10 feet from the roll to determine how many feet the vehicle moves forward before it stops.
1148|When you take this feat, choose one Charisma-, Dexterity-, or Intelligence-based skill. While you're raging, you can use this skill.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you do, it applies to a different skill.
1149|You get a +3 bonus on all checks involving the chosen skill. If you have 10 or more ranks in that skill, this bonus increases to +6.  Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new skill.
1150|Select one sorcerer bloodline. You must have Skill focus in the class skill that bloodline grants to a sorcerer at 1st level (for example, Heal for the celestial bloodline). This bloodline cannot be a bloodline you already have. You gain the first-level bloodline power for the selected bloodline. For purposes of using that power, treat your sorcerer level as equal to your character level – 2, even if you have levels in sorcerer. You do not gain any of the other bloodline abilities.
1151|You gain sorcerer bloodline powers of the bloodline tied to Eldritch Heritage as if your sorcerer level were your character level – 2. For that bloodline's 1st-level bloodline power, use your full character level to determine its effect; for all other bloodline powers, treat your sorcerer level as your character level – 2.
1152|You gain either the 3rd-level or the 9th-level power (your choice) of the bloodline you selected with the Eldritch Heritage feat. For purposes of using that power, treat your sorcerer level as equal to your character level – 2, even if you have levels in sorcerer. You do not gain any of the other bloodline abilities.  Special: You may select this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you select the feat, it applies to a different bloodline power for that bloodline available at sorcerer level 3 or 9.
1153|You gain an additional power from the bloodline you selected with the Eldritch Heritage feat. You gain a 15th-level (or lower) sorcerer bloodline power that you do not already have. For purposes of using that power, treat your character level as your sorcerer level for all your sorcerer bloodline powers granted by this feat, Eldritch Heritage, and Improved Eldritch Heritage.
1154|You can attempt a Linguistics check in place of a Use Magic Device check to activate a scroll, or in place of a Spellcraft check to identify a scroll. You must still have (or emulate) the ability score required to cast a spell of the desired level, and you cannot use Linguistics on the check to emulate the required ability score.
1155|While in areas of dim lighting or natural darkness, you ignore all size penalties on Stealth checks and gain a +2 bonus on attack rolls against flat-footed enemies.
1156|You can use a Linguistics check in place of a Bluff check to tell a falsehood or conceal information, in place of a Diplomacy check to change the attitude of a creature, or in place of an Intimidate check to force a creature to cooperate. You must deliver your attempt in a language the target understands.
1157|You can always take 10 or 20 on checks with your choice of skill for Skill Focus, even when you are rushed or threatened.  Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. The effects do not stack. Each time you take this feat, it applies to a different non-mythic Skill Focus feat.
1158|Strix racial fly speed increases to 60 feet
1159|You gain a +2 bonus on all checks involving the chosen skill. If you have 10 or more ranks in that skill, this bonus increases to +4.  Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new skill.
1160|When you take this feat, choose one of your favored enemy types. Against enemies of that type, the threat range of any weapon you wield is doubled. This effect does not stack with any other effect that expands a weapon's threat range.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you take it, you choose a different favored enemy type.
1161|As a swift action, you may alter the effects of your venom so the target falls unconscious. This changes the initial and secondary effect of your venom to the following: initial effect staggered for 1d4 rounds; secondary effect unconsciousness for 1 minute. You must make the decision to alter your venom before you apply it to a weapon.
1162|When you are within arm's reach of a wall, you can slow your descent, as long as you are not in heavy armor. You take damage as if the fall were 10 feet shorter than it actually is. This ability stacks with the slow fall class feature.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you do, you take damage as if the fall were an additional 10 feet shorter.
1163|You are able to control, guide, and communicate with slurks (Pathfinder RPG Bestiary 2 251), as if they understood Draconic. You can also spend a standard action to manipulate the nodules on the slurk's back to activate its slime ability. Both you and the slurk can activate this ability during the same round.
1164|When you throw a rock as part of an attack action and hit your target, you can cause the boulder to emit a 10-foot-radius spread of heavy smoke. The smoke lasts for 1d4 rounds.
1165|Whenever you are flanking with an ally who also has this feat, as a swift action you can make a bite attack against the opponent you and your ally are flanking.
1166|You can use your bite as a natural weapon. This is a primary attack that deals 1d6 points of damage.
1167|The creature can start a grapple when it hits with a claw or bite attack, as though it had the grab ability. If it grapples a creature three or more sizes smaller, it squeezes each round for automatic bite or claw damage with a successful grapple check. A snatched opponent held in the creature's mouth is not allowed a Reflex save against the creature's breath weapon, if it has one.  The creature can drop a creature it has snatched as a free action or use a standard action to fling it aside. A flung creature travels 1d6 × 10 feet, and takes 1d6 points of damage per 10 feet traveled. If the creature flings a snatched opponent while flying, the opponent takes this amount or falling damage, whichever is greater.
1168|As a move action, you grant all friendly creatures within 30 feet who can see or hear you (including yourself) a +2 bonus on Diplomacy checks for a number of rounds equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum 1 round).
1169|You grant and benefit from the +2 bonus on Diplomacy checks from Sociable constantly without having to spend a move action. You can spend a move action to increase the bonus to +4 for a number of rounds equal to your tier.
1170|Once per day, as an immediate action upon reducing a creature to 0 or fewer hit points with one of your sorcerer spells, you can regain one usage of a sorcerer bloodline power that has a limited number of uses per day. The slain creature must have at least half as many Hit Dice as your sorcerer level. You cannot use this feat to gain another usage of a bloodline power that you have not yet used today.
1171|While your bane class feature is affecting a creature type, the saving throw's DCs for your spells increase by +2 for creatures of that type.
1172|If another spellcaster tries to counterspell your casting, she adds +4 to her Spellcraft DC when trying to determine your spell.  Because you have studied how to mask the recognizable elements of your spellcasting, you gain a +2 bonus on your Spellcraft checks to identify and counter an opponent's spell if it is a spell you know or have in your spellbook.
1173|Add +1 to the Difficulty Class for all saving throws against spells from the school of magic you select.  Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new school of magic.
1174|Each creature you conjure with any summon spell gains a +4 enhancement bonus to Strength and Constitution for the duration of the spell that summoned it.
1175|Any creature you summon using a summon spell is considered mythic for the purpose of interacting with other mythic creatures. It doesn't gain any mythic abilities or power, but is affected by mythic spells and abilities as if it were a 1st-tier mythic creature. Additionally, if the creature summoned has damage reduction, its damage reduction becomes DR/epic.
1176|Each time you cast a summon monster spell, you can select a 1-point evolution other than pounce or reach from those available to a summoner's eidolon. Your summoned creature gains this evolution. The summoned creature must conform to any limitations of the evolution. (For instance, only a creature with a reach of 10 feet or greater can have the pull evolution.) Evolutions that grant additional attacks or enhance existing attacks can be applied only to Medium or larger summoned creatures.  If you summon more than one creature with a single spell, only one creature gains the evolution.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you do, select an additional 1–point evolution for one of your summoned creatures. If you summon more than one creature, you can apply all the chosen evolutions to a single summoned creature or split them between the creatures.
1177|Creatures you summon gain the ferocity universal monster ability.
1178|Each time you cast a summoning spell that conjures more than one creature, add one to the total number of creatures summoned.
1179|You gain a +2 bonus on caster level checks with divinations to overcome spell resistance or effects that impede divination (for example, nondetection). When using a divination spell that requires concentration, you gain information from the spell 1 round sooner than normal (so you gain information from the first 2 rounds with 1 round of concentration, and information from the third round in the second round of concentration).
1180|Non-mythic creatures can't identify your illusion spells with Spellcraft, including checks attempted as part of arcane sight, detect magic, or similar effects. When mythic creatures attempt to identify your illusions, add your tier to the DC of those Spellcraft checks. Mythic creatures informed by their allies that one of your illusions isn't real gain only a +2 bonus on their Will saves to disbelieve. Non-mythic creatures gain no bonus to disbelieve.
1181|Add +1 to the Difficulty Class for all saving throws against spells from the school of magic you select. This bonus stacks with the bonus from Spell Focus.  Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new school to which you already have applied the Spell Focus feat.
1182|Creatures you summon shed light as a light spell. They are immune to confusion and sleep effects, and their natural weapons are treated as silver for the purposes of overcoming damage reduction.
"1183|Add ""human skeleton"" to the list of creatures you can summon with summon monster I and ""human skeletal champion"" to the list of creatures you can summon with summon monster III.  Once per day, when you cast summon monster, you may summon a skeletal version of one of the creatures on that spell's summoning list (apply the skeleton template to that creature to create this monster)."
1184|Choose a school of magic you already have Spell Focus in. The bonus to save DCs provided by Spell Focus and Greater Spell Focus for that school increases by 1. You can expend one use of mythic power as part of casting a spell from your chosen school to force any of the spell's targets to roll their saving throws twice, taking the lower result.  Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. The effects do not stack. Each time you take this feat, it applies to a different non-mythic Spell Focus feat.
1185|Select one spell of a school for which you have taken the Spell Focus feat. Treat your caster level as being two higher for all level-variable effects of the spell.  Every time you gain an even level in the spellcasting class you chose your spell from, you can choose a new spell to replace the spell selected with this feat, and that spell becomes your specialized spell.  Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a different spell.
1186|By sacrificing a prepared spell of the same or higher level than your specialized spell, you may spontaneously cast your specialized spell. The specialized spell is treated as its normal level, regardless of the spell slot used to cast it. You may add a metamagic feat to the spell by increasing the spell slot and casting time, just like a cleric spontaneously casting a cure or inflict spell with a metamagic feat.
1187|Creatures you summon gain the Blind-Fight feat, a +5 bonus to Perception and Stealth checks in dim light or darkness, and their natural weapons are treated as cold iron for overcoming damage reduction.
1188|Creatures that you summon shed light as a light spell. They are immune to blinding or dazzling effects, and their natural weapons are treated as magical for overcoming damage reduction.
1189|The DC of caster level checks to dispel or remove your transmutations increases by 2; even if the spell is negated, its effects persist for 1 additional round before dissipating.
1190|A thanatopic spell pierces defenses and immunities that protect against death effects, negative levels, and energy drain, affecting the target as if the protective barrier did not exist.  For example, you could cast a thanatopic vampiric touch or enervation spell on a target under the effects of death ward, and the target would suffer the normal effect of the spell. Saving throws and SR (if any) still apply.  Undead are susceptible to spells augmented by this feat, as it retunes the negative energy to be harmful to them. A thanatopic spell that would kill a living creature (such as by giving it negative levels equal to its Hit Dice) destroys an undead (though undead such as ghosts, liches, and vampires may reform as normal). Undead affected by thanatopic spells that give negative levels automatically make their saving throws to remove negative levels after 24 hours.  A thanatopic spell uses up a spell slot two levels higher than the spell's actual level.  Normal: Defenses such as death ward negate death effects, negative levels, and energy drain. Undead are immune to these attacks.
1191|This feat only works on mind-affecting spells. A threnodic spell affects undead creatures (even mindless undead) as if they weren't immune to mind-affecting effects, but has no effect on living creatures. A threnodic spell uses up a spell slot two level higher than the spell's actual level.  Normal: Undead are immune to mind-affecting effects.
1192|When you cast animate dead or use the Command Undead feat, you are considered to be four levels higher when determining the number of Hit Dice you animate. When you cast command undead, your duration is doubled.
1193|When you cast animate dead or use the Command Undead feat, add your tier to your caster level when determining the number of Hit Dice of undead you animate. This stacks with the increased caster level of Undead Master. When you cast command undead, your duration is tripled rather than doubled.
1194|Select one 1st-level spell in the class that grants you the major hex class feature. You can learn that spell as a hex, and can use that hex three times per day. This is a spell-like ability. You use your class level in the major-hex-granting class as your caster level for the spell hex. The spell hex uses your hex DC instead of its original spell DC.  If the spell is a touch spell and you miss the creature, you cannot target the creature with that spell hex again for 24 hours. If the spell allows a saving throw to negate or take a partial effect from the spell, and the target succeeds at that saving throw, it cannot be affected by the spell hex for 24 hours, even if it is in the area of the spell hex.
1195|Each time you take this feat, choose a number of spells that you already know equal to your Intelligence modifier. From that point on, you can prepare these spells without referring to a spellbook.  Normal: Without this feat, you must use a spellbook to prepare all your spells, except read magic.
1196|When you prepare your spells each day, you can choose to keep a number of spell slots equal to your Intelligence modifier (minimum 1) flexibly prepared. Instead of preparing a single spell within each of these slots, you can partially prepare two spells. Anytime after you prepare these flexible slots, you can spend a full-round action to finalize one slot, choosing one of the two spells to be finished and fully prepared in that slot.
1197|When you use Flexible Wizardry, you can flexibly prepare a number of spell slots equal to your Intelligence modifier + 4. Furthermore, you can finalize one of these slots with a standard action instead of a full-round action.
1198|You can prepare spells you have selected with Spell Mastery as a full-round action. You must spend the appropriate amount of time preparing other spells you have not mastered. As a full-round action, you can expend one use of mythic power to prepare all your spells that you have selected with Spell Mastery.
1199|You get a +2 bonus on caster level checks (1d20 + caster level) made to overcome a creature's spell resistance.
1200|You get a +2 bonus on caster level checks (1d20 + caster level) made to overcome a creature's spell resistance. This bonus stacks with the one from Spell Penetration.
1201|Add half your tier to caster level checks to overcome spell resistance. If you have Greater Spell Penetration, add your full tier instead.
1202|Pick one spell which you have the ability to cast. Whenever you cast that spell you may apply any one metamagic feat you have to that spell without affecting its level or casting time, as long as the total modified level of the spell does not use a spell slot above 9th level. In addition, if you have other feats which allow you to apply a set numerical bonus to any aspect of this spell (such as Spell Focus, Spell Penetration, Weapon Focus [ray], and so on), double the bonus granted by that feat when applied to this spell.
1203|You can combine your bardic performance and your spellcasting in two ways.  First, you can conceal the activity of casting a bard spell by masking it in a performance. As a swift action, you may combine your casting time of a spell with a Perform check. Observers must make a Perception or Sense Motive check opposed by your Perform check to realize you are also casting a spell. This uses 1 round of your bardic performance ability, regardless of the spell's casting time.  Second, as a move action, you can use 1 round of bardic performance to maintain a bard spell with a duration of concentration. You can cast another spell in the same round you are using bardic magic to maintain concentration; if you do this, your concentration on the maintained spell ends when you end the bardic performance the spell is part of.
1204|You can cast spider climb once per day as a spell-like ability, using your character level as the caster level. Furthermore, you gain a +4 bonus on saving throws against the web special attacks of spiders and the effects of web and other similar spells (such as the web cloud spell).
1205|As a move action, you can move up to half your slow fall distance (maximum 50 feet) across a wall or ceiling or across ropes, branches, or even water or other surfaces that cannot support your weight. You must reach a solid, level surface by the end of your turn or you will fall.
1206|As a move action, you can air walk (as the spell) up to half your slow fall distance, maximum 50 feet. You must reach a solid, level surface by the end of your turn or you will fall.
1207|When casting either a summon monster spell or a summon nature's ally spell, your options increase. Depending on the level of the spell, you can summon the spiders listed below.  Summon Monster: 1st level—giant crab spider*; 4th level—giant black widow*; 5th level—ogre spider*; 7th level—giant tarantula* Summon Nature's Ally: 1st level—giant crab spider; 4th level—giant black widow; 5th level—ogre spider; 7th level—giant tarantula  Creatures marked with an asterisk (*) are summoned with the celestial template if you are good, and the fiendish template if you are evil. If you are neutral, you may choose which template to apply to the creature.  Furthermore, when you summon spiders using summon monster or summon nature's ally, the DC of the summoned monster's poison and web effects increases by 2.
1208|Select a legend of spirits. Your spirit bonus from spirits of that legend increases by 1.
1209|Whenever you are within 10 feet of an ally benefiting from a spell or effect that grants a morale bonus on a particular type of roll, once during that effect's duration, you can apply that morale bonus on a roll you make of that type. For instance, if an ally with this feat is benefiting from heroism, once during the duration of the spell you could gain a +2 morale bonus on one saving throw, attack roll, or skill check. You can use this feat only once per round, and only once per spell or effect.
1210|Once per day, you can spend 10 minutes communing with a shaman spirit of your choice. When you do, you gain the temporary use of one hex from its list of hexes. This hex is added to your list of available hexes for the next hour, after which you immediately lose all benefits of that hex.
1211|At the start of each day, you can commune with a single shaman spirit. (Although a shaman would need an hour of preparation, this action takes you no time.) Once during the next 24 hours, you can spend a standard action to grant your animal companion or familiar that shaman spirit's spirit animal ability for 1 minute per level in the class that grants your animal companion or familiar.
1212|The saving throw bonus from your still mind class feature applies against possession effects, and as an immediate action you can spend 1 point from your ki pool to double the saving throw bonus provided by still mind.  Normal: Your still mind class feature applies only against enchantment spells and effects.
1213|Whenever you cast spiritual weapon, spiritual ally, or a similar spell that grants you a spiritual guardian, that guardian uses your shaman level instead of your base attack bonus to determine its base attack bonus, potentially granting it multiple attacks. Additionally, it gains a +2 bonus on caster level checks to overcome spell resistance as well as on damage rolls.
1214|Whenever you summon your phantom, you can give it a +2 enhancement bonus to its Strength, Dexterity, or Charisma. This bonus lasts for 10 minutes after the summoning ritual is complete.
1215|Spit poison up to 10 feet as a ranged touch attack
1216|Whenever you use a melee or thrown weapon with the fragile weapon feature (page 146) or similar quality and hit an opponent, you can give your weapon the broken condition to deal that opponent 1d4 points of bleed damage.
1217|When you use one of your hexes (not a major hex or a grand hex) that targets a single creature, you can choose another creature within 30 feet of the first target to also be targeted by the hex.
1218|When you use one of your major hexes (not a grand hex) that targets a creature, you can choose another creature within 30 feet of the first target to also be targeted by the major hex.
1219|Pick a single spell that you are able to cast spontaneously. When you apply metamagic feats to that spell, you can cast the spell using the normal casting time instead of at the slower casting time.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you select this feat, choose a new spell that you can cast spontaneously; the feat applies to that spell.
1220|You can change which spell your Spontaneous Metafocus feat applies to each morning when you restore your expended spell slots. The spell it applies to can be of any level, but it must be a legal selection for the Spontaneous Metafocus feat.  Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. The effects do not stack. Each time you take this feat, it applies to a different non-mythic Spontaneous Metafocus feat.
"1221|You can ""lose"" a prepared spell in order to cast any summon nature's ally spell of the same level or lower, instead of casting a cure spell or an inflict spell as you normally would. For the purpose of this feat only, the summon nature's ally spells of the appropriate spell levels count as being on your spell list at the same spell level as for a druid."
1222|When you take this feat, choose one type of animal to emulate from those given in the hunter's animal focus class feature. Once per day, you or your animal companion (if you have one) can gain the benefit of that animal focus for 1 minute. Treat your character level as your hunter level for the purpose of determining the benefits granted by your chosen animal focus.  Special: If you gain levels in a class that has the animal focus class feature, when you gain that feature you gain 1 additional minute of use each day of your animal focus class feature.
1223|Add your Charisma modifier instead of your Wisdom bonus to Will saves. If you have a Wisdom penalty, you must apply both your Wisdom penalty and your Charisma modifier.
1224|While you can see one or more allies who also have this feat, whenever you and your allies make a Stealth check, you all take the highest roll and add all your modifiers to Stealth.
1225|You get a +2 bonus on all Escape Artist and Stealth skill checks. If you have 10 or more ranks in one of these skills, the bonus increases to +4 for that skill.
1226|The bonus on Escape Artist and Stealth skill checks from Stealthy increases by 2. In addition, you can expend one use of mythic power to treat an Escape Artist or Stealth check as if you had rolled a natural 20. You must decide to use this ability before making the roll.
1227|You may increase the casting time of a fire spell to a full-round action, infusing it with elemental power (spells with a casting time of 1 full-round action or longer do not have an increased casting time). The spell is treated as if it had the water descriptor. All fire effects of the altered spell instead manifest as superheated steam. The altered spell works normally underwater without requiring a caster level check. Unlike fire, the steam cannot ignite objects or set creatures on fire. As the spell still deals fire damage, fire resistance or immunity still applies to the spell's effects.
1228|You receive a +4 racial bonus on saving throws against spells and spell-like abilities. This replaces the normal bonus from the dwarf's hardy racial trait.  Normal: Dwarves normally receive a +2 racial bonus on saving throws against spells and spell-like abilities.
1229|Whenever an adjacent foe attempts to take a 5-foot step away from you, you may also make a 5-foot step as an immediate action so long as you end up adjacent to the foe that triggered this ability. If you take this step, you cannot take a 5-foot step during your next turn. If you take an action to move during your next turn, subtract 5 feet from your total movement.
1230|Whenever an ally with this feat who is threatening a creature you are threatening takes a 5-foot step, you can move 5 feet as an immediate action. This movement does not provoke attacks of opportunity.
1231|When using the Step Up feat to follow an adjacent foe, you may move up to 10 feet. You may still take a 5-foot step during your next turn, and any movement you make using this feat does not subtract any distance from your movement during your next turn.  Normal: You can only take a 5-foot step to follow an opponent using Step Up.
1232|When using the Step Up or Following Step feats to follow an adjacent foe, you may also make a single melee attack against that foe at your highest base attack bonus. This attack counts as one of your attacks of opportunity for the round. Using this feat does not count toward the number of actions you can usually take each round.  Normal: You can usually only take one standard action and one 5-foot step each round.
1233|A stilled spell can be cast with no somatic components. Spells without somatic components are not affected. A stilled spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell's actual level.
1234|By spending 5 rounds finding a suitable location, you can hold yourself so still that you appear to be a Small object such as a pile of rocks. This allows you to make a Stealth check without cover or concealment, as long as you do not move or take any other actions.
1235|You receive a +4 bonus on Bluff checks to lie or conceal your feelings or true motives, but not to feint in combat or deliver secret messages. In addition, the DC for Sense Motive checks to get a hunch about you is 25 rather than 20.
1236|When you use bardic performance with audible components underground, the range or area of your chosen performance is doubled, and you can affect deaf creatures if they possess tremorsense and are in your new range. In addition, the DC for saving throws against your bardic performance is increased by +2 for creatures of the earth subtype, regardless of where the performance occurs.
1237|Whenever you move, you may move through 5 feet of earth- or stone-based difficult terrain (rubble, stone stairs, and so on) each round as if it were normal terrain. The effects of this feat stack with similar feats such as Acrobatic Steps and Nimble Moves. This feat allows you to take a 5-foot step into this kind of difficult terrain.
1238|You gain a burrow speed equal to 1/2 your base speed. You can burrow through sand, dirt, clay, gravel, or similar materials, but not solid stone. You do not leave a hole behind, nor is your passage marked on the surface.
1239|You gain the earth glide universal monster ability and can use it to travel at your full base speed through sand, dirt, clay, gravel, or similar materials. If protected against fire damage, you can even burrow through lava. You can burrow through solid stone at 1/2 your base speed.
1240|While you're maintaining a raging song, if you fail a saving throw against a fear effect, you can expend a round of performing to reroll your saving throw as an immediate action. You must keep this second result, even if it's lower.
1241|You can ready an action to make a melee attack against any foe that attacks you in melee, even if the foe is outside of your reach.
1242|When you make a melee attack as a readied action against a foe outside your melee reach, you can take a 5-foot step toward that foe. If you expend one use of mythic power, you can move your speed toward the foe instead. Neither of these counts toward the movement made during your turn.
1243|Whenever you are allowed to reroll an ability check, a skill check, or a saving throw, you gain a +2 circumstance bonus on the reroll.
1244|Whenever you're allowed to reroll an ability check, a skill check, or a saving throw, roll two dice and take the higher result, before adding the bonus from Strong Comeback.
1245|When you are within 30 feet of your implement, you don't need to attempt a concentration check to cast spells associated with that implement. When you are at a greater distance, the DC for the concentration check is equal to 15 + the spell's level.  Normal: Anytime you attempt to cast a spell using an implement that's not in your possession, you must succeed at a concentration check with a DC equal to 20 + the spell's level in order to cast the spell.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Its effects don't stack. Each time you take the feat, you gain the benefits for a different school of implements. If you have more than one implement of a single school, you can select that school multiple times and apply the benefits to another one of those implements each time you take this feat and select that school.
1246|Whenever you summon your eidolon, you may give it a +2 enhancement bonus to its Strength, Dexterity, or Constitution. This bonus lasts 10 minutes after the summoning ritual is complete.
1247|You gain a +2 racial bonus on Acrobatics and Climb checks.
1248|Roll twice while climbing or when making a Reflex save to avoid falling, and take the higher result.
1249|You can move across icy and snowy surfaces without penalty, and don't need to attempt Acrobatics checks to run or charge on ice. You gain a +4 bonus on Climb checks to climb ice.
1250|When you confirm a critical hit or roll a natural 20 on a saving throw, you gain a +2 circumstance bonus on a single attack roll, saving throw, skill check, or ability check of your choice before the end of your next turn. You must choose to use this bonus before you make the attack roll, saving throw, skill check, or ability check.
1251|Whenever you are adjacent to an ally who also has this feat, you can move into your ally's square as part of normal movement. At the same time, your ally moves into your previous space as an immediate action. Both you and your ally must be willing and able to move to take advantage of this feat. Your ally must be the same size as you to utilize this feat. Your ally does not provoke an attack of opportunity from this movement, but you provoke as normal. This movement does not count against your ally's movement on his next turn.
1252|When you and your ally use Swap Places, your ally can be up to one size larger or smaller than you, and your movement into the ally's square does not provoke attacks of opportunity. If your ally cannot fit into the space you had been occupying and there are no available adjacent squares to accommodate the rest of the ally's space, the ally must squeeze. Alternatively, as part of its movement, the ally can attempt a bull rush combat maneuver against a creature that occupies a space your ally would occupy, but this bull rush cannot move the creature more than 5 feet.  Normal: Using Swap Places requires you and your ally to be the same size, and your movement into the ally's square provokes attacks of opportunity.
1253|Your swim speed increases by 15 feet.
1254|Whenever you are adjacent to an ally who is raging, you may choose to enter a similar but less powerful rage as a free action on your turn. This weaker rage gives you all the benefits and penalties of a barbarian's rage, except your morale bonus to Strength and Constitution is only +2. There is no limit to how long you can rage, as long as you remain adjacent to a raging ally (for example, you could take a 5-foot step away from one raging ally toward another raging ally and maintain your rage). As with a barbarian's rage, when this weaker rage ends, you are fatigued. You cannot use this feat if you are fatigued.
1255|You can make a tail slap attack with your tail. This is a secondary natural attack that deals 1d4 points of bludgeoning damage. Furthermore, you can augment your tail slap attack with a kobold tail attachment. For the purpose of weapon feats, you are considered proficient with all kobold tail attachments.
1256|You can make a tail slap attack with your tail. This is a secondary natural attack that deals 1d6 points of bludgeoning damage. You also gain a +2 racial bonus on Acrobatics checks to balance and to your CMD against maneuvers that attempt to move you from your square.
1257|You gain an additional daily use of each of your minor magic and major magic rogue talents.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you do, you gain an additional daily use of each talent.
1258|Whenever you attempt a trip combat maneuver against an enemy threatened by an ally with this feat, you roll twice and take the better result.
1259|You can demoralize opponents using Bluff rather than Intimidate (see the Intimidate skill description for details) and take no skill check penalty for being smaller than your target.
1260|Whenever an ally with this feat succeeds a Bluff check to feint an opponent, if you are adjacent to that creature, you can spend an immediate action to make a Sleight of Hand check to pickpocket that opponent and gain a +4 bonus on that attempt.
1261|You are considered to be trained in any skill used against a technology-based subject. If the skill in question requires training to use even against non-technological subjects, you must still have ranks in that skill in order to gain the benefit of Technologist.  Normal: You treat all skill checks made against technology as if they were untrained skill checks. This may mean that you cannot attempt certain skill checks, even if you possess ranks in the skill in question.
1262|Create and install cybertech
1263|Create pharmaceutical items
1264|Create technological weapons and armor
1265|Create technological items
1266|As a standard action, you can focus your telepathy on one creature within range to weaken its resistance to mental attacks. The target must succeed at a Will save (DC = 10 + 1/2 your Hit Dice + your Charisma modifier) or take 1d6 points of nonlethal damage and take a –2 penalty against mind-affecting effects; the penalty lasts for 1d6 rounds. This is a mind-affecting effect. You can use this ability a number of times per day equal to 1/2 your Hit Dice.
1267|Once per day, you can sprout a pair of giant black crow's wings, granting you a fly speed of 30 feet (average maneuverability). This spell-like ability otherwise functions as beast shape I (though you do not gain any other benefits of that spell) with a caster level equal to your level.
1268|Once per day, you can take the form of a Large black bird resembling a raven, granting you a fly speed of 60 feet (good maneuverability), a +4 size bonus to your Strength, a –2 penalty to your Dexterity, and a +4 natural armor bonus. This spell-like ability otherwise functions as beast shape II with a caster level equal to your level.
1269|You can augment the power of your divine spells with arcane energy and augment your arcane spells with divine energy.  When casting a divine spell, you may sacrifice an arcane spell slot or arcane prepared spell of that spell's level or higher as a swift action. The caster level for that divine spell increases by +1.  When casting an arcane spell, you may sacrifice a divine spell slot or prepared divine spell of the same or higher level as a swift action. Half the damage dealt by the arcane spell becomes holy (if you channel positive energy) or unholy (if you channel negative energy).
1270|Once per day when you attempt a Disable Device check to open a lock or Sleight of Hand check to pick a pocket, you can roll twice and take the better result.  Goal: Steal a famous and well-guarded treasure worth at least 50,000 gp while leaving no evidence of your involvement behind. The treasure must be protected by a mix of at least 8 traps or challenging foes. Any guardians need not be defeated, merely bypassed. You don't need to keep the treasure, and you can boast of the theft afterward.  Completion
"1271|Once per day as a free action, you can think back about a single statement you heard in the last day and determine if it was a lie. This acts like the discern lies spell, but instead of affecting a creature, it affects a single statement a creature has made.  For example, if the king told you, ""My daughter is in the monster's dungeon"" before you left to find her, as long as the king said that to you within the past day, you can use this feat to determine whether or not the king deliberately and knowingly lied to you when he made that statement."
1272|When you are raging and your attack reduces an enemy to negative hit points or kills it, you regain 1 round of rage. You may only use this feat if the fallen enemy had at least as many Hit Dice as you. You can only gain this benefit once per round.
1273|The range of your terrifying croak ability increases by 5 feet for every 2 Hit Dice you have (maximum 30-foot increase). While speaking Boggard or wordlessly vocalizing, you can swell your throat pouch as a free action to reduce the Perception DC needed to hear your voice by an amount equal to your Hit Dice.  Special: The benefits of Throat Pouch and any feats that use it as a prerequisite are available only while you're wearing light, medium, or no armor.
1274|When you use your terrifying croak ability, instead of it imparting its normal effect, you can choose to deal 1d4 points of sonic damage to creatures in a 15-foot cone (Fortitude half). The DC of this Fortitude save is the same as that of your terrifying croak. For every 3 Hit Dice you possess, the damage dealt increases by 1d4.  Special: The Throat Pouch feat increases the size of this feat's cone by 5 feet for every 6 HD you have, not every 2 HD.
1275|When you use your terrifying croak ability, instead of imparting its normal effect you can choose to stun one creature within 30 feet for 1 round. If the target succeeds at a Fortitude save, it is instead staggered for 1 round. The DC of this Fortitude save is the same as that of your terrifying croak ability.
1276|You do not suffer any penalties for using an improvised ranged weapon. You receive a +1 circumstance bonus on attack rolls made with thrown splash weapons.  Normal: You take a –4 penalty on attack rolls made with an improvised weapon.
1277|While raging, you can throw a two-handed weapon as a standard action, and you double the range increment for weapons you throw. If you also have the Quick Draw feat, you can throw two-handed weapons at your full normal rate of attacks. Further, you can pick up an unattended object that you can use as a improvised weapon within your reach as part of the attack action to throw that item.
1278|Whenever your splash weapon misses and the misdirection roll indicates it lands in a square occupied by a creature, you may make an attack roll (at a –5 penalty) as if you had thrown the splash weapon at that creature. If this attack roll succeeds, the splash weapon hits and the creature takes full damage instead of splash damage. Squares adjacent to this creature still take splash damage as normal.  Normal: A thrown splash weapon that misses deals splash damage in the square where it lands and in adjacent squares.
1279|You gain a +2 bonus on attack rolls and damage rolls made using an improvised thrown weapon or splash weapon. This bonus stacks with the bonus from the non-mythic Throw Anything feat. If you miss with a thrown splash weapon, it always lands adjacent to its target regardless of how many range increments it was thrown.
1280|You can modify a spell to deafen a creature damaged by the spell. When a creature takes damage from this spell, it becomes deafened for a number of rounds equal to the original level of the spell. If the spell allows a saving throw, a successful save negates the deafening effect. If the spell does not allow a save, the target can make a Fortitude save to negate the deafening effect. If the spell effect also causes the creature to become deafened, the duration of this metamagic effect is added to the duration of the spell. A thundering spell uses up a spell slot two levels higher than the spell's actual level.  Spells that do not inflict damage do not benefit from this feat.
1281|The impact of your force spell is strong enough to knock the target prone. If the target takes damage, fails its saving throw, or is moved by your force spell, make a trip check against the target, using your caster level plus your casting ability score bonus (Wisdom for clerics, Intelligence for wizards, and so on). This does not provoke an attack of opportunity. If the check fails, the target cannot attempt to trip you or the force effect in response.  A toppling spell only affects spells with the force descriptor. A toppling spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell's actual level.
1282|You gain +3 hit points. For every Hit Die you possess beyond 3, you gain an additional +1 hit point. If you have more than 3 Hit Dice, you gain +1 hit points whenever you gain a Hit Die (such as when you gain a level).
1283|As a move action, you can leave a gap in your defenses for one adjacent opponent to use. If the opponent attacks you on its next turn, it gains a +4 bonus on its attack roll. Whether or not the opponent successfully hits, you may attack it as an immediate action with a single melee attack, gaining a +2 bonus on your attack roll.
1284|When you gain an enhancement bonus to your natural armor, that bonus increases by 2. This has no effect if your natural armor bonus is +0 or you do not have an enhancement bonus increasing your natural armor bonus.
1285|Toughness provides you twice as many hit points. In addition, when you're below 0 hit points, you gain DR 10/epic. This DR stacks with any other DR/epic you might possess.
1286|Choose a particular settlement. When you're in your chosen settlement, the DC of Intimidate checks made against you increases by 10. You gain a +1 bonus on attack rolls and a +1 dodge bonus to AC against undesirable elements like criminals or ruffians in your chosen settlement. This bonus increases to +2 for combat maneuver checks.  Goal: Defeat 10 more troublemakers in your chosen settlement with a CR equal to your character level or higher, and in the process eliminate a serious criminal threat or otherwise clean up the streets.  Completion
1287|Whenever you succeed at a saving throw against poison, you heal 1 point of ability damage of the type dealt by the poison. Whenever you heal ability damage naturally or magically, you heal 1 additional point of ability damage. This feat has no effect on penalties to ability scores or ability drain.
1288|When you manually trigger a trap against opponents, that trap receives either a +2 circumstance bonus on melee attack rolls or a +2 circumstance bonus to its saving throw DC.
1289|Gain a +2 bonus on your CMD against all trip attacks; make Acrobatics checks to hang from nearby protrusions
1290|Once per day, you may expend your racial hydraulic push ability to instead cast summon nature's ally III as a spell-like ability with a caster level equal to your character level. This use of the ability can only summon 1d3 Small water elementals, 1d4+1 dolphins, a shark, or an electric eel. Using this ability is a full-round action.
1291|A traumatic spell causes lingering memories of pain and suffering in creatures harmed by it. When a creature fails a saving throw against a traumatic spell, the next time it sleeps it must succeed at a Will save with a DC equal to the original spell's DC or be affected as if by nightmare. Each time the target fails its save, it must save again the following night or be affected by another nightmare, though the save DC decreases by 2 each night after the first. This metamagic feat can be applied only to spells with the emotion or fear descriptor. A traumatic spell uses up a spell slot 2 levels higher than the spell's actual level.
1292|You add 1 to the save DC and caster level of your spells and spell-like abilities with the emotion descriptor. In addition, you gain a +2 bonus on Sense Motive checks. If you have 10 or more ranks in Sense Motive, this bonus increases to +4.  Goal: Find a way to be with your true love (even if you can't formally wed).  Completion
1293|You can, as a standard action, use one of your uses of channel positive energy to cause all undead within 30 feet of you to flee, as if panicked. Undead receive a Will save to negate the effect. The DC for this Will save is equal to 10 + 1/2 your cleric level + your Charisma modifier. Undead that fail their save flee for 1 minute. Intelligent undead receive a new saving throw each round to end the effect. If you use channel energy in this way, it has no other effect (it does not heal or harm nearby creatures).
1294|When you use Turn Undead, the range increases by 10 feet per tier, and non-mythic undead take a penalty on their saving throws equal to your tier.  You can expend one use of mythic power when using Turn Undead to destroy undead. Instead of fleeing, undead that fail their saves might be destroyed. You destroy 2d4 Hit Dice worth of undead per tier. Undead with the fewest HD are affected first; among undead with equal HD, those that are closest to the burst's point of origin are affected first. No undead of 9 or more HD can be affected, and HD that aren't sufficient to affect an undead are wasted.
1295|As a standard action, you can attempt to feint against a foe within your reach. If you succeed at the feint, you can make an additional feint attempt against a foe that is adjacent to the first one and also within reach. You can attempt only one additional feint per action with this feat. When you use this feat, you take a –2 penalty to your AC until your next turn.  Special: If you have the Improved Feint feat, you can use this feat as a move action instead.
1296|While you are wearing light armor or no armor, if you are forced to attempt a Fortitude saving throw, you can use an immediate action to instead attempt a Reflex saving throw (at the same DC). If you succeed at this saving throw and the attack has a reduced effect on a successful save, you avoid the effect entirely. Whether the saving throw is successful or not, you are staggered until the end of your next turn. If you are prevented from becoming staggered, you can't use Twist Away , nor can you ignore the staggered condition from Twist Away or remove it early.
1297|You gain a +1 bonus on attack and damage rolls against grazed, wounded, or critical enemies.
1298|Whenever you use two hands to throw a one-handed or two-handed weapon, you gain a bonus on damage rolls equal to 1-1/2 times your Strength bonus. Using two hands to throw any weapon requires only a standard action for you. If you also have the Quick Draw feat, you can throw two-handed weapons at your full normal rate of attacks.  Normal: You add your Strength bonus on thrown weapon damage, regardless of available hands. Throwing a two-handed weapon is a full-round action.
1299|Your penalties on attack rolls for fighting with two weapons are reduced. The penalty for your primary hand lessens by 2 and the one for your off hand lessens by 6. See Two-Weapon Fighting in Combat.  Normal: If you wield a second weapon in your off hand, you can get one extra attack per round with that weapon. When fighting in this way you suffer a –6 penalty with your regular attack or attacks with your primary hand and a –10 penalty to the attack with your off hand. If your off-hand weapon is light, the penalties are reduced by 2 each. An unarmed strike is always considered light.
1300|You can apply your bane to a second weapon you are wielding. While your bane class feature is active, at the start of each of your turns as a free action, you choose whether to apply the ability to one weapon or the other, or both. For each round you apply your bane class feature to two weapons, you expend 2 rounds of that feature.
1301|Add your Strength bonus to damage rolls made with your off-hand weapon.  Normal: You normally add only half of your Strength modifier to damage rolls made with a weapon wielded in your off-hand.
1302|If you hit an opponent with both your primary hand and your off-hand weapon, you deal an additional 1d10 points of damage plus 1-1/2 times your Strength modifier. You can only deal this additional damage once each round.
1303|The damage of your Two-Weapon Rend increases to 2d8 points plus twice your Strength modifier. You can expend one use of mythic power to gain a bonus on this damage equal to twice your tier.
1304|When you use divine bond or sacred weapon to improve your weapon, you can choose to enhance two weapons or both ends of a double weapon. All weapons affected must be in hand or otherwise wielded. Any enhancement bonus you add to one of your weapons gets added to the second one at no extra cost, but weapon special abilities must be accounted for separately. For example, if you can enhance up to the equivalent of a +2 bonus, you could give both your weapons an additional +1 bonus and apply the keen weapon special ability to one of them.
1305|In addition to the standard single extra attack you get with an off-hand weapon, you get a second attack with it, albeit at a –5 penalty.  Normal: Without this feat, you can only get a single extra attack with an off-hand weapon.
1306|You get a third attack with your off-hand weapon, albeit at a –10 penalty.
1307|While using Two-Weapon Fighting to make melee attacks, you can forgo your first primary-hand melee attack to make a Bluff check to feint an opponent. If you successfully feint, that opponent is denied his Dexterity bonus to AC until the end of your turn.
1308|Once per round, when wielding a bludgeoning weapon in each hand against a creature with the giant subtype, if you hit the creature with your off-hand weapon after you hit with your primary weapon, roll the damage dice for your off-hand weapon twice and add the results together before adding any bonuses. Such extra weapon damage dice are not multiplied on a critical hit.
1309|You can trip a creature with the giant subtype of up to Huge size, and you gain a +2 bonus on damage rolls against creatures of the giant subtype. Further, each time you hit a creature of the giant subtype with your off-hand weapon after you hit that creature with your primary weapon, you can deal the extra off-hand weapon damage Twin Thunders grants you.
1310|Whenever you deal an opponent extra damage with the Twin Thunders feat, that opponent is shaken for 1 round. You also force that opponent to succeed at a Fortitude saving throw (DC 10 + half your level + your Str modifier) or become staggered for 1 round. If you use this feat to render staggered an opponent that is already staggered, you daze that opponent instead. In a similar way, you can stun an opponent that is already dazed.
1311|When wielding a double weapon or two weapons (not including natural weapons or unarmed strikes), you gain a +1 shield bonus to your AC.  When you are fighting defensively or using the total defense action, this shield bonus increases to +2.
1312|When using Two-Weapon Defense, you apply the highest enhancement bonus from your two weapons to the shield bonus granted by that feat.
1313|While using Two-Weapon Fighting to make melee attacks, you can forgo your first primary-hand melee attack to make a Bluff check to feint an opponent.
1314|As an immediate action, you can expend one use of mythic power to negate the penalties on attack rolls for two-weapon fighting for a number of rounds equal to your tier.
1315|Your aura of resolve is a 20-foot emanation, and does not end if you fall unconscious.  Normal: The aura of resolve affects each ally within 10 feet, and ends when you fall unconscious.
1316|You can ride creatures of your size category, although encumbrance or other factors might limit how you can use this ability.  Normal: Typically a mount suited for you is at least one size category larger than you.
"1317|Once per day, you can cast a touch spell without being in contact with your familiar and designate your familiar as the ""toucher."" You don't need line of sight to your familiar to use this ability, but you must be within 30 feet of your familiar when you cast the spell, and if you can't see or hear your familiar, you must at least be able to speak with it.  Special: You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you do, you gain another use of this feat, and the distance you can be from your familiar increases by 10 feet.  Normal: Your familiar must be in contact with you when a spell is cast in order for it to deliver the spell."
1318|Your dogged determination reduces any nonlethal damage you take by 1 point, to a minimum of 1 point of nonlethal damage. You also gain a +1 bonus on Will saves.  Goal: Find your lost loved one alive, and in the process, decisively defeat a challenging foe who kept you apart.  Completion
1319|As a swift action, you can focus the clarity granted by your detect evil ability to heighten your awareness of other things. This gives you a +10 sacred bonus on Perception and Sense Motive checks for one round. This expends your use of the detect evil class ability for the next 24 hours.
1320|Pick one 1st-level spell, one 2nd-level spell, one 3rd-level spell, and one 4th-level spell from the bard, cleric, inquisitor, or oracle spell lists. Add these spells to your paladin spell list as paladin spells of the appropriate level. Once chosen, these spells cannot be changed.
1321|When you use esoteric material components as part of casting a spell, you gain a +2 bonus on concentration checks to cast that spell, and the spell is treated as though its caster level were 2 higher against attempts to dispel it. This increase is in addition to any increases due to greater component or limited magic benefits.
"1322|Your animal companion or familiar's type changes to ""undead."" The creature gains fast healing 5 as well as your vampire or dhampir weaknesses. If you are a vampire, the creature also gains the following abilities, depending on what type of vampire you are.  Jiang-Shi : While the creature is adjacent to or in your square, it gains the benefit of your prayer scroll ability. The creature crumbles into dust if destroyed (just like a jiang-shi), but is not permanently destroyed unless measures are taken that would destroy a jiang-shi.  Moroi : If the creature is adjacent to or in your square when you assume gaseous form, it transforms with you and follows you; its transformation ends when yours does. If reduced to 0 hit points, it's forced into gaseous form and must return to your coffin to reform (or the foot of your coffin if it cannot fit within it).  Nosferatu : If the creature is adjacent to or in your square when you assume swarm form, it transforms with you and follows you; its transformation ends when yours does. The creature can climb as if using the spider climb vampire ability, even if its anatomy is not suitable for climbing (such as a horse).  Special: If your animal companion or familiar is destroyed, dismissed, or lost, you can apply the effects of this feat to the replacement creature. If you are destroyed, the creature retains its undead type but loses all other special abilities from this feat. If you have more than one animal companion or familiar, choose one of them when you select this feat and apply its effects to that creature.  You can select this feat more than once. Each time you select the feat, it applies to a different animal companion or familiar."
1323|Select two creature types (and subtypes where appropriate) from the list of potential favored enemies from the ranger class ability. Your +1 attack bonus from the hatred racial trait applies to creatures of the selected types (and subtypes).  Special: You may take this feat more than once. Its benefits do not stack. Each time you select this feat, you select two additional creature types to which your hatred racial trait applies.
1324|You gain a +1 bonus on saving throws, attack rolls, and weapon damage rolls against your chosen foe and known minions of that foe.  Goal: Thwart your chosen foe.  Completion
1325|You can spit venom as a secondary ranged attack with a range of 5 feet. This is a natural attack and doesn't provoke attacks of opportunity. A target struck by your venom must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC = your poison DC) or be blinded for 1d4 rounds and suffer the normal effects of your poison. You can't use this attack during any round in which you make a bite attack (and vice versa). After spitting venom, you are unable to use your poisonous bite or to spit venom for 1d4 rounds.
1326|You may target vermin with spells and special abilities that only affect animals (although they are still affected by spells targeting vermin as well). You may use wild empathy to influence vermin as easily as you influence animals.
"1327|You may make a choice whenever you use your channel energy class feature.  If you normally channel positive energy, you may choose to channel negative energy as if your effective cleric level were 2 levels lower than normal.  If you normally channel negative energy, you may choose to channel positive energy as if your effective cleric level were 2 levels lower than normal.  Having this feat means you qualify for feats and abilities that have ""channel positive energy"" or ""channel negative energy"" as a prerequisite (for example, you qualify for the Command Undead feat and the Turn Undead feat).  Note: This feat only applies to necromancers, neutral clerics who worship neutral deities, or neutral clerics who do not worship a deity—characters who have the channel energy class ability and have to make a choice to channel positive or negative energy at 1st level. Clerics whose alignment or deity makes this choice for them cannot select this feat."
1328|Anytime you must attempt a Will save against a hostile effect, there is a 25% change that the effect targets your vestigial head instead. If this occurs, you are treated as if you had succeeded at your saving throw, and instead are sickened for 1d4 rounds or the duration of the effect (whichever is longer).  Special: You can take this feat twice. The second time you do, the chance of a hostile Will effect targeting your vestigial head instead of your own increases to 50%. This doesn't give you another vestigial head.
1329|While your eidolon is within your reach, you gain a +4 bonus on Perception checks. If you have 10 or more ranks in Perception, this bonus increases to +8. This does not apply if your eidolon is helpless or unconscious.
1330|While your phantom is within your reach, you gain a +4 bonus on Perception checks. If you have 10 or more ranks in Perception, this bonus increases to +8. This doesn't apply if your phantom is helpless or unconscious.
1331|When you use the attack action, you can make one attack at your highest base attack bonus that deals additional damage. Roll the weapon's damage dice for the attack twice and add the results together before adding bonuses from Strength, weapon abilities (such as flaming), precision based damage, and other damage bonuses. These extra weapon damage dice are not multiplied on a critical hit, but are added to the total.
1332|Whenever you use Vital Strike, Improved Vital Strike, or Greater Vital Strike, you gain a +2 bonus on each extra weapon damage dice roll those feats grant (+6 maximum). This bonus damage is multiplied on a critical hit.
1333|Whenever you use Vital Strike, Improved Vital Strike, or Greater Vital Strike, you gain a bonus on attack rolls to confirm a critical hit equal to the bonus on damage rolls you gain from Devastating Strike.
1334|When you use Vital Strike (or Improved Vital Strike or Greater Vital Strike), the creature you hit with the attack must succeed at a Will save (DC = 10 + 1/2 your character level + your Wisdom modifier) or be illuminated as if by faerie fire for 1 minute. You can use this benefit a number of times per day equal to your Wisdom modifier (minimum 1).
1335|While raging, when you use the Vital Strike feat, you can choose not to roll your damage dice and instead deal damage equal to the maximum roll possible on those damage dice. If you do, your rage immediately ends, and you are fatigued (even if you would not normally be).
1336|When you use Vital Strike (or Improved Vital Strike or Greater Vital Strike), you cause the foliage in the area to reach out and entangle your foe (as the condition) if it fails a Reflex save (DC = 10 + 1/2 your character level + your Wisdom modifier). The effect lasts for 1 minute or until the enemy breaks free with a successful Strength check or an Escape Artist check (DC = the effect's saving throw DC), whichever comes first.  You can use this benefit a number of times per day equal to your Wisdom modifier (minimum 1). You can use this ability as a free action after you hit an enemy with an attack. This is a supernatural ability.
1337|When you use the attack action, you can make one attack at your highest base attack bonus that deals additional damage. Roll the weapon's damage dice for the attack three times and add the results together before adding bonuses from Strength, weapon special abilities (such as flaming), precision based damage, and other damage bonuses. These extra weapon damage dice are not multiplied on a critical hit, but are added to the total.
1338|When you use the attack action, you can make one attack at your highest base attack bonus that deals additional damage. Roll the weapon's damage dice for the attack four times and add the results together before adding bonuses from Strength, weapon abilities (such as flaming), precision based damage, and other damage bonuses. These extra weapon damage dice are not multiplied on a critical hit, but are added to the total.
1339|When you attack a foe using Vital Strike, you can choose to take a –2 penalty on your attack roll to also make the attack a staggering strike. You must make this choice before making the attack roll. If your attack roll is successful, your target must succeed at a Fortitude saving throw (DC = 10 + 1/2 your character level + your Strength modifier) or be staggered until the start of your next turn. Once a creature that failed its save recovers from the effects of your staggering blow, it is immune to the effects of this feat for 24 hours. Constructs, oozes, plants, undead, incorporeal creatures, and creatures that are immune to critical hits are immune to this effect.
1340|Whenever you use Vital Strike, Improved Vital Strike, or Greater Vital Strike, multiply the Strength bonus, magic bonus, and other bonuses that would normally be multiplied on a critical hit by the number of weapon damage dice you roll for that feat.  Extra damage from sources that wouldn't normally be multiplied on a critical hit isn't multiplied by this feat.
1341|A number of times per day equal to your Wisdom modifier (minimum 1), when you use Vital Strike (or Improved Vital Strike or Greater Vital Strike), your strike saps the strength of your opponent. The creature hit must succeed at a Fortitude save (DC = 10 + 1/2 your character level + your Wisdom modifier) or become fatigued for a number of rounds equal to your Wisdom modifier (minimum 1). You can choose to use this ability as a free action after you hit the target with the attack. This is a supernatural ability.
1342|You get a +1 bonus on all Bluff, Diplomacy, and Perform (oratory) skill checks. If you have 10 or more ranks in one of these skills, the bonus increases to +3 for that skill. You do not get these bonuses if you do not use your voice when using the skill (such as using Bluff to feint in combat).
1343|You gain a +1 bonus on all Bluff, Diplomacy, and Perform (oratory) skill checks for every 3 tiers you possess. This bonus stacks with the bonus from Voice of the Sibyl. If you have 10 or more ranks in at least two of these skills, gain a +2 bonus to the DC of any language-dependent spell you cast.
1344|Choose two warpriest blessings when you take this feat. Each of these blessings must be tied to a domain granted by your deity or to one of the two domains that represent your spiritual inclination and abilities. Twice per day, you can call upon the minor blessing from one or the other of your chosen blessings. This ability otherwise acts like the warpriest blessings class feature. Your effective warpriest level is the highest level that you have in the class that has the mystery or domains class feature.
1345|You gain Bluff and Diplomacy as class skills. In addition, you receive a +4 competence bonus on Bluff and Diplomacy skill checks when using either skill to convince another character to go to war against or attack another creature or group.
1346|You gain a burrow speed of 10 feet through earth, sand, or soil.  Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Each time you take it, add 10 feet to your burrow speed, up to a maximum of your base land speed.
1347|You heal 1 hit point per 10 minutes as long as you are surrounded by at least 5 feet of dirt or stone on all sides and take no actions.
1348|When you are reduced to 0 hit points, you are not destroyed­—you cannot be killed unless your body is completely destroyed with fire or doused in holy water, or you take damage from a cure spell or channeled positive energy after you've been reduced to 0 hit points. Anytime you are reduced to 0 hit points, you remain unconscious until you are healed or until the following midnight, at which time you regain 1 hit point per Hit Die and awaken.
1349|You gain a +1 bonus on initiative checks and a +2 bonus on concentration checks made to cast a spell or use a spell-like ability when casting defensively or while grappled.
1350|You gain a bonus equal to half your tier both on initiative checks and on concentration checks to cast a spell or use a spell-like ability when casting defensively or while grappled. These bonuses stack with the bonuses from Warrior Priest.
1351|When you use bardic performance with audible components on a battlefield (any area where a combat involving a dozen or more combatants is taking place), the range or area of your chosen performance is doubled. In addition, the DC for saving throws against your bardic performance is increased by +2 for creatures of the orc subtype, regardless of where the performance occurs.
1352|As a standard action, you can extinguish a small nonmagical fire with a touch, affecting anything up to the size of a large campfire. This ability does not affect fires with a total area greater than 5 square feet. Touching the fire in this way does not harm you.
1353|With a light weapon, rapier, whip, or spiked chain made for a creature of your size category, you may use your Dexterity modifier instead of your Strength modifier on attack rolls. If you carry a shield, its armor check penalty applies to your attack rolls.  Special: Natural weapons are considered light weapons.
1354|When you take this feat, choose one kind of light or one-handed slashing weapon (such as the longsword). When wielding your chosen weapon one-handed, you can treat it as a one-handed piercing melee weapon for all feats and class abilities that require such a weapon (such as a swashbuckler's or a duelist's precise strike), and you can add your Dexterity modifier instead of your Strength modifier to that weapon's damage. The weapon must be one appropriate for your size. You do not gain this benefit while fighting with two weapons or using flurry of blows, or any time another hand is otherwise occupied.
1355|When using Weapon Finesse, you may also use your Dexterity modifier instead of your Strength modifier on your damage rolls. If you carry a shield, its armor check penalty doesn't apply to either the attack rolls or the damage rolls.
1356|You gain a +1 bonus on all attack rolls you make using the selected weapon.  Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new type of weapon.
1357|Choose a type of thrown weapon. You do not provoke attacks of opportunity for making ranged attacks using the selected weapon. If you are an alchemist, and you select this feat and choose alchemist bombs, you do not provoke attacks of opportunity for the process of drawing components of, creating, and throwing a bomb.  Normal: Making a ranged attack provokes attacks of opportunity.
1358|Choose a ranged weapon or a thrown weapon. When you make a ranged attack using that weapon, you can choose to provoke an attack of opportunity from one or more opponents who threaten you. You gain a +4 dodge bonus against such attacks. An opponent that makes such an attack and misses you loses his Dexterity bonus to AC against you until the end of your turn.
1359|You can use your deity's favored weapon as if it were a monk weapon.
1360|While wielding the weapon in which you have Weapon Focus, you can perform a bewildering show of prowess as a full-round action. Make an Intimidate check to demoralize all foes within 30 feet who can see your display.
1361|While wielding the weapon with which you have Weapon Focus, you can use Dazzling Display as a standard action with a –5 penalty on your Intimidate check, as a move action with a –10 penalty, or as a swift action with a –20 penalty. You can expend one use of mythic power when you make a Dazzling Display to make those affected by the display frightened rather than shaken.
1362|When you successfully use Dazzling Display against any shaken, frightened, or panicked opponents, their fear increases by one step. An already panicked creature demoralized by this feat cowers. Once affected by this feat, a creature cannot be affected by it again (by you or anyone else) for 24 hours.
1363|When you spend a swift action to make a performance check, you exude an aura of awe-inspiring skill. You gain a +2 bonus on your performance check, and gain a +2 bonus on all attack rolls and combat maneuver checks until the end of your next turn.
1364|When you use the attack action, you can use a weapon with which you have Weapon Focus to make a single attack at your highest base attack bonus. If you reduce your target to negative hit points, you can spend a swift action to make an Intimidate check to demoralize all foes within 30 feet who could see your attack.
1365|When you spend a swift action to make a performance combat check, you present the weapon in which you have Weapon Focus in a triumphant display. You gain a +2 bonus on the performance combat check and make an Intimidate check to demoralize all foes within 30 feet who can see your display.
1366|Whenever you use Dazzling Display while your bane feature is active, you gain a +2 bonus on the Intimidate check that Dazzling Display allows against creatures of the type your bane weapon currently affects. Such creatures remain shaken while your bane feature is still active and effective against their creature type.
1367|Choose the effects of any two performance feats you have. When you make a performance combat check, you gain the benefits of those two feats, but you only gain a +2 bonus on the performance combat check.
1368|You can make performance combat checks in any combat. When making a performance check outside of performance combat, you can pick a single performance feat to use. You automatically gain any bonus on the performance combat check the feat grants, and then you make a DC 20 performance combat check. On a success, you gain the full effect of the performance feat you chose.
1369|You can make performance combat checks as a free action. You are proficient in all weapons with the performance special quality.
1370|When you spend a swift action to make a performance combat check, you gain a +2 bonus on your performance combat check and gain a +1d6 bonus on damage rolls until the end of your next turn. This extra damage is not precision damage.
1371|Any shaken, frightened, or panicked opponent hit by you this round is flat-footed to your attacks until the end of your next turn. This includes any additional attacks you make this round.
1372|As a standard action, make a single attack with the weapon for which you have Greater Weapon Focus against a stunned or flat-footed opponent. If you hit, you deal double the normal damage and the target takes 1 point of Constitution bleed (see Conditions). The additional damage and bleed is not multiplied on a critical hit.
1373|When making a Deadly Stroke attack, you can expend one use of mythic power to instantly kill a non-mythic living creature. A Fortitude save (DC 10 + your base attack bonus + your tier) negates this effect, though the attack still deals double damage and Con bleed as Deadly Stroke. Constructs, oozes, and creatures immune to critical hits or precision-based damage can't be killed with this feat.
1374|An opponent you affect with Shatter Defenses is flat-footed to all attacks, not just yours.
1375|Choose one of your natural weapons. While using the selected natural weapon, you can apply the effects of feats that have Improved Unarmed Strike as a prerequisite.  Special: If you are a monk, you can use the selected natural weapon with your flurry of blows class feature.
1376|You gain a +1 bonus on attack rolls you make using the selected weapon. This bonus stacks with other bonuses on attack rolls, including those from Weapon Focus.  Special: You can gain Greater Weapon Focus multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new type of weapon.
1377|Your attacks with weapons selected with Weapon Focus ignore up to 5 points of damage reduction. This feat does not apply to damage reduction without a type (such as DR 10/—).
1378|Your attacks with weapons selected with Weapon Focus ignore up to 10 points of damage reduction. This amount is reduced to 5 points for damage reduction without a type (such as DR 10/—).
1379|When using Penetrating Strike or Greater Penetrating Strike, you can ignore an additional point of damage reduction for every 3 tiers you posses. Additionally, the effects apply to damage reduction without a type (such as DR 10/—).
1380|If you have been prone since the end of your last turn, the penalty to your Armor Class against melee attacks made against you is reduced to -2. In addition, the bonus to your Armor Class against ranged attacks made against you is increased to +6.
1381|By employing a number of different stances and techniques, you can wield a quarterstaff as a one-handed weapon. At the start of your turn, you decide whether or not you are going to wield the quarterstaff as a one-handed or two-handed weapon. When you wield it as a one-handed weapon, your other hand is free, and you cannot use the staff as a double weapon. You can take the feat Weapon Specialization in the quarterstaff even if you have no levels in fighter.
1382|When you take this feat, choose one kind of ranged weapon. You gain the bonuses for studied combat with your chosen weapon and can use studied strike with your chosen weapon as long as the target of your studied strike is within 30 feet of you.  Normal: You gain the bonuses for studied combat and can use studied strike only with melee weapons.
1383|You can make melee attacks using your loaded sling, using that weapon's normal statistics but treating it as a flail. Using a sling in this way does not expend mundane ammunition, but magical or masterwork ammunition loses its special properties after a single hit.  Special: Any feats you have that apply when you use a flail also apply when you use a loaded sling as a melee weapon.
1384|When you make an attack with a weapon that you have Weapon Focus in, you take no penalty on the attack roll when you are attempting to make an attack that deals no damage or nonlethal damage.  Normal: When making attacks that deal no damage or nonlethal damage, you take a –4 penalty on attack rolls.
1385|When you successfully entangle a creature with a lasso and beat the target's CMD by 5 or more, the target cannot speak above a whisper and must succeed at a concentration check (DC = 20 + your CMB + the spell level) to cast a spell with a verbal component, use a command word item, or use any magic requiring speech. Additionally, the DC of an Escape Artist check to slip free of a lasso you are using equals 15 or your CMD, whichever is higher.
1386|As a swift action, you can call upon your deity to guide an attack you make with your deity's favored weapon. On your next attack in that round with that weapon, your weapon counts as magical for the purpose of overcoming damage reduction or striking an incorporeal creature. If your attack misses because of concealment, you can reroll your miss chance one time to see whether you actually hit.
1387|This feat acts as Weapon of the Chosen, except you gain the benefits on all attacks until the start of your next turn. Your attacks gain a single alignment component of your deity—either chaotic, evil, good, or lawful—for the purpose of overcoming damage reduction. If your deity is neutral with no other alignment components, your attacks instead overcome damage reduction as though your weapon were both cold iron and silver.
1388|When you use your deity's favored weapon to attempt a single attack with the attack action, you roll two dice for your attack roll and take the higher result. You do not need to use your Weapon of the Chosen feat to gain this feat's benefit. As usual, the reroll does not apply to any confirmation rolls.
1389|Double the bonuses on your attack rolls from Weapon Focus and Greater Weapon Focus. As a swift action, you can expend one use of mythic power to gain a bonus on attack rolls with your selected weapon equal to half your tier until the end of your turn.  Special: If you have taken non-mythic Weapon Focus multiple times, you must choose which of those feats this enhances. You can take this feat multiple times. The effects do not stack. Each time you take this feat, it applies to a different non-mythic Weapon Focus feat you have.
1390|You gain a +2 bonus on all damage rolls you make using the selected weapon.  Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new type of weapon.
1391|Choose one type of ranged weapon. You do not provoke attacks of opportunity when firing the selected weapon while threatened.  Normal: Using a ranged weapon while you are threatened provokes attacks of opportunity.  Special: Starting at 6th level, a ranger with the archery combat style may select Point Blank Master as a combat style feat, but he must have Weapon Focus instead of Weapon Specialization in the selected weapon.
1392|You gain a +2 bonus on all damage rolls you make using the selected weapon. This bonus to damage stacks with other damage roll bonuses, including any you gain from Weapon Specialization.  Special: You can gain Greater Weapon Specialization multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new type of weapon.
1393|When using your chosen weapon, you gain a bonus equal to half your tier on damage rolls. This stacks with the bonus from Weapon Specialization and Greater Weapon Specialization.  Special: If you have taken non-mythic Weapon Specialization multiple times, you must choose which of those feats this enhances. You can take this feat multiple times. The effects do not stack. Each time you take this feat, it applies to a different non-mythic Weapon Specialization feat you have.
1394|You no longer provoke attacks of opportunity when attacking with a whip. You can deal lethal damage with a whip, although you can still deal nonlethal damage when you want. Further, you can deal damage with a whip despite a creature's armor bonus or natural armor bonus.  Normal: Attacking with a whip provokes attacks of opportunity as if you used a ranged weapon. A whip deals no damage to a creature that has an armor bonus of +1 or natural armor bonus of +3.  Open Game License.
1395|While wielding a whip, you threaten the area of your natural reach plus 5 feet. You can also use a whip to grasp an unattended Small or Tiny object within your whip's reach and pull that object into your square. To do so, you must hit AC 10 with a melee touch attack. Further, you can use the whip to grasp onto an object within your whip's reach, using 5 feet of your whip as if it were a grappling hook, allowing you to use the rest of your whip to swing on like a rope. As a free action, you can release the object your whip is grasping, but you cannot use the whip to attack while the whip is grasping an object.
1396|You are so quick with your whip that you never drop it due to a failed disarm or trip combat maneuver attempt. Further, you gain the ability to grapple using your whip. To do so, use the normal grapple rules with the following changes.
"1397|Once per day, when confronted with a situation that calls for a particular mundane item of equipment, you may make a Sleight of Hand check with a DC of 10 plus the item's cost in gold pieces to ""happen"" to have such an item on your person. For example, having a crowbar would be DC 12, whereas a flask of acid would be DC 20. The item must be something you can easily carry—if you are on foot and have only a backpack, for example, you could not have a large iron cauldron. You cannot have magical items using this feat, nor can you have specific items, such as the key to a particular door. If you are stripped of your equipment or possessions, you lose the benefits of this feat until you have at least a day to resupply and ""acquire"" new items. You must pay for these items normally.  Special: At the GM's option, a character can substitute the Survival skill for Sleight of Hand with this feat. Such a choice is permanent."
1398|You can alter a burst, emanation, or spread-shaped spell to increase its area. Any numeric measurements of the spell's area increase by 100%. A widened spell uses up a spell slot three levels higher than the spell's actual level.  Spells that do not have an area of one of these four sorts are not affected by this feat.
1399|When using wild shape to take the form in which you cannot speak (such as an animal), you are able to speak normally in any language you know. This allows you to cast spells with verbal components, speak command words, and activate spell completion and spell trigger items. However, it does not give you the ability to cast spells requiring somatic components unless you also have the Natural Spell feat, or cast spells with material components merged into your form.  When using wild shape to take the form of an animal, you may use speak with animals to communicate with animals of your assumed form. This is a spell-like ability with a caster level equal to your druid level, and you may use it for a number of minutes per day equal to your druid level. These minutes do not have to be consecutive, but must be used in one-minute increments.
1400|Once each round, a creature with this feat can turn up to 180 degrees as a free action without making a Fly skill check. This free turn does not consume any additional movement from the creature.  Normal: A flying creature can turn up to 90 degrees by making a DC 15 Fly skill check and expending 5 feet of movement. A flying creature can turn up to 180 degrees by making a DC 20 Fly skill check and expending 10 feet of movement.  Open Game License.
1401|Each day, when you prepare your spells, you can select a masterwork or magical dagger, transforming it into a witch knife, which serves as an additional focus component for witch patron spells. Add +1 to the DC of all your patron spells.
1402|You can use your witch knife as an additional focus component for all your witch spells, not just your patron spells, adding 1 to their DC. This bonus stacks with the bonus to patron spells granted by Witch Knife, granting your patron spells a total +2 bonus to their DC. Additionally, the hand holding the witch knife is still considered free for the purpose of casting spells and delivering touch attacks.
1403|You may use your lay on hands to heal another creature at a range of 30 feet as a standard action that does not provoke an attack of opportunity. You must be able to speak and have a free hand to use this ability. The target heals half the amount they would have healed if you had touched them, but gains the benefits of your mercies as normal.  Open Game License.
1404|With a successful DC 20 Disable Device check, you can jury-rig a depleted (but not destroyed) battery so it provides 1 more charge. Using this charge or failing your check by 5 or more permanently depletes the battery.  You can attempt the same check to add 1 last charge to a discharged piece of timeworn technology. Regardless of the outcome, no other attempts can be made, even by another person. Using this feat takes 1 minute. You can attempt to wrest a charge as a move action by taking a -10 penalty on your check. This feat does not stack with the charge cycling deed.  Open Game License.
1405|With a successful DC 25 Linguistics check, you can speak with a single individual with whom you share no common languages. You cannot take 10 on this check, nor can anyone aid you. You believe you are speaking your native language, and the listener believes you are speaking its native language; however, to everyone else able to hear you, you sound like you are speaking gibberish. Creatures that have truespeech or that are under the effects of tongues can understand Xenoglossy, and other creatures who succeed at a DC 25 Linguistics check can pick up the gist of what you are saying. Xenoglossy lasts for the length of the conversation or for 1 minute per level, whichever is shorter. You can use Xenoglossy again to continue a longer conversation, and you gain a +2 on Linguistics checks to use Xenoglossy to communicate with someone with whom you previously communicated using this feat. If you fail a Xenoglossy check, you can't use the Xenoglossy feat to attempt further communication with that creature until you gain additional ranks in Linguistics.  Open Game License.
